title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
NFL: How one school in Melbourne, Australia is reshaping gridiron|http://nytimes.com/australia|http://nytimes.com/2018/08/30/sport/australia-nfl-punting-factory-intl-spt/index.html||2018-08-30|Motez Bishara||(CNN) When Australian punting coach Nathan Chapman looks back at his workout video for the Denver Broncos, he squirms.

"It makes me want to vomit," he bluntly says of a moment that marked his short NFL preseason stint in 2004. "To think I was just kicking a ball without any technical knowledge at all."

Things have come a long way since then.

Largely thanks to Chapman's Pro Kick Australia school, founded on the lessons he learned as an NFL hopeful, the country is cranking out punters to major US college programs and infiltrating the pros.

No fewer than 65 Pro Kick graduates will suit up for Division I schools this year, according to Chapman, and three are likely to stick on NFL rosters.

They include Seattle Seahawks rookie Michael Dickson, who skipped his senior season at Texas after winning the Ray Guy Award, given to college football's top punter.

Like most other Pro Kick students -- and like Chapman himself -- Dickson played Australian rules football and had little understanding of the sport the Aussies call "gridiron."

No matter. After a brief tryout -- which he attended on a whim with friend Oscar Bradburn, now with Virginia Tech -- Dickson enrolled in Pro Kick in March 2015.

By September, he was booming punt after punt for the Texas Longhorns in front of more than 80,000 at Notre Dame.

"I never really watched a full game of American football until I played my first game against Notre Dame," Dickson recently admitted to the Seattle Times. "It took me two years to really fully understand (the rules)."

Dickson's talents shone in a win at the Texas Bowl in December, when he landed 10 punts inside Missouri's 20-yard line and walked away as the game's MVP.

Texas coach Tom Herman said he had never seen a punter affect a game that way.

Dickson accepted the MVP award for his performance at the Texas Bowl in December. He was drafted by the Seattle Seahawks in the fifth round.

"That's what we try to do," says Chapman. "We feel like our duty is to bring attention back to the punting game so that coaches realize, hey, if we've got a good one, we can attack more,"

Dickson will likely be joined in the NFL this season by fellow Pro Kick alumnus Jordan Berry of the Pittsburgh Steelers and Cameron Johnson of the Philadelphia Eagles.

Another Aussie rules convert Lachlan Edwards punts for the New York Jets, while compatriot Brad Wing is looking for a call up after three seasons with the New York Giants.

"Three to five Australians out of 32 (NFL teams) is not a bad ratio," says Chapman.

Waiting in the wings are about a dozen Pro Kick punters in the Pac-12 Conference -- where the speedy game suits Australian punters who are mobile, says Chapman -- and others in the Southeastern Conference (SEC) and Big Ten Conference

Chapman is pictured coaching Dickson.

'We have a million punters'

In Australian rules football players score by kicking a oval ball between goalposts, often at long distances while on the run. The sport's unique skill set makes it a breeding ground for Pro Kick.

"When it comes to punting, we have a million punters," says Chapman, who earned his own shot with the Green Bay Packers after his eight-year career in Aussie rules ended.

Chapman was cut the week before the 2004 regular season, largely due to inexperience. "If I had known what the coaches actually wanted, I could have tied my kicking pursuit with (that) rather than just kicking blindly and wildly," he says.

He also didn't understand the business side of things.

The Packers used a third-round pick on Ohio State punter B. J. Sander, making it unlikely an unproven lad from Down Under would crack the roster, he says.

Greater awareness "would have allowed me to think I may have to look elsewhere," he says. "I want people not to make those mistakes."

His experience spawned Pro Kick.

He remembers thinking, "With a little bit of guidance to do this right, there are many guys in Australia who can kick a football and succeed at this." He also thought, "If you go about it the wrong way 20 more will fail."

Pro Kick graduate Jordan Berry (#4) is in his fourth year with the Pittsburgh Steelers. In 2015, Berry beat out fellow Aussie Brad Wing for the Steeler's punting job.

'It's like ordering pizza'

Chapman opened his school in Melbourne in 2007, but soon realized his pupils would be better served approaching US colleges rather than gunning straight for the NFL.

The fees are not cheap, starting at nearly $11,000 for a one-year course, which encompasses three days a week of punting practice and two days in the weight room, along with academic preparation to meet NCAA eligibility rules.

But Chapman stresses that Pro Kick is open only by invitation to those who he thinks have the ability to make it as punters. The fees, he says, are more an investment in their future, virtually guaranteeing a full ride at a US university.

"Ninety-five percent of the people in our program have walked away with $180,000," Chapman says, estimating the value of a four-year scholarship.

What helps Pro Kick's success rate is Chapman's close relationship with a number of US college coaches, who he declined to name because of the sensitivity of their arrangement.

Many, he says, will take a player on his word -- often without even seeing them kick in person.

Nathan Chapman, shown posing for the Hawthorn Hawks in 2000, played Australian rules football for eight years before trying out for the NFL.

"It's like ordering a pizza," Chapman says. "You tell us what you want and we will go get it.

"You want this type of leg, this type of strength, this type of kick? We've got the player you want ... let's go and train him for the next six to eight months, and then we'll deliver him on your doorstep.

"That's pretty much how it works."

Pro Kick's strength lies in punting, but teaches other positions, namely placekicking, to about 10% of students, and punt returning.

Former Hawaii standout Scott Harding, who could punt with distance from both legs , also learned to catch at Pro Kick.

Remarkably, he was Hawaii's starting punter, punt returner, and second leading receiver in 2013.

Photos: American football's giant earners Super Bowl winners Russell Wilson (left), of the Seattle Seahawks, and Tom Brady of the New England Patriots are two elite NFL quarterbacks, yet neither is in the top 10 of the league's highest paid players. Here is a list of the top 20 NFL earners, based on average salary per year. (Source: overthecap.com) Hide Caption 1 of 21 Photos: American football's giant earners No. 20: Case Keenum, $18 million – Landing on his fourth team in his sixth NFL season, Case Keenum is finally getting paid. After throwing a miraculous last-play touchdown against the Saints in January to lift the Vikings into the NFC title game, Minnesota allowed Keenum to walk away as a free agent. The 30-year-old -- who holds NCAA records in passing yards and touchdown passes from a stellar career at the University of Houston -- signed with the Denver Broncos for two years and $36 million. Hide Caption 2 of 21 Photos: American football's giant earners No. 19: Von Miller, $19.1 million – The only non-quarterback on the list, Denver Broncos' linebacker Von Miller is on pace for a Hall of Fame career. The MVP of Super Bowl 50 is coming off his fourth Pro Bowl appearance in a row and sixth overall. In 2016, Miller signed a $114.5 million deal ($70 million guaranteed) with the Broncos, making him the richest defensive player in NFL history. The former Texas A&M Aggie also has a side business farming chickens. Hide Caption 3 of 21 Photos: American football's giant earners No. 18: Ryan Tannehill, $19.25 million – He's back. Though the Miami Dolphins' Ryan Tannehill (#17) showed promise during his first five seasons in the league, his knee injury last pre-season knocked him out for all of 2017. A former part-time receiver in college at Texas A&M, Tannehill was one of the speediest quarterbacks in the league -- a quality which will be tested in his comeback. In 2015, Tannehill became the 64th quarterback in NFL history to record a perfect passer rating in a win against Houston, throwing four TDs, with 18 completions in 19 attempts. Hide Caption 4 of 21 Photos: American football's giant earners No. 17: Sam Bradford, $20 million – Sam Bradford has moved again. After seemingly finding a home in Minnesota following a solid 2016, Bradford underwent the third knee operation of his career early into the 2017 campaign, then lost his starting job to Case Keenum. As a free agent, Bradford signed a deal with the Arizona Cardinals for $20 million this season, $15 million of it guaranteed. It is his fourth team in nine seasons. Hide Caption 5 of 21 Photos: American football's giant earners No. 16: Tom Brady, $20.5 million – At 41, Tom Brady is coming off his third league MVP award, and was one quarter away from wining his sixth Super Bowl in February. Though the 13-time Pro Bowler shows no signs of slowing down, he sits at the midway point of starting quarterback salaries in the NFL. Brady, in fact, has more Super Bowl starts (eight) than his former backup and third-highest paid player Jimmy Garoppolo has in his entire career (seven). Brady has two seasons left on a $41 million deal and indicated he would like to play until he is 45. Hide Caption 6 of 21 Photos: American football's giant earners No. 15: Cam Newton, $20.76 million – Has "Killer" Cam Newton finally put his disastrous Super Bowl 50 appearance behind him? The 2015 league MVP played in a funk all of 2016 while his Carolina Panthers limped to a 6-10 record. Last year, however, Newton was more assertive after undergoing rotator cuff surgery during the off season. Throwing for 22 TDs and rushing for six more, the Panthers headed back to the playoffs, only to be knocked out by New Orleans in the first round. The 29-year-old -- who is equally known for his fashion sense -- signed a five-year, $103.8 million extension in 2015. Hide Caption 7 of 21 Photos: American football's giant earners No. 14: Philip Rivers, $20.81 million – Although his statistics make him a solid Hall of Fame candidate, Philip Rivers has yet to appear in a Super Bowl during his 14-year career. And although he has led the San Diego Chargers into the playoffs five times, Rivers is going through a four-year playoff drought. In 2017 Rivers and the Chargers moved to Los Angeles where they played to a half-empty soccer stadium. Still, Rivers posted solid numbers of 28 TDs and 10 interceptions. The 36-year-old is halfway through a four-year, $83.25 million deal. The Chargers, who did not draft a quarterback, do not appear in a rush to replace him. Hide Caption 8 of 21 Photos: American football's giant earners No. 13: Eli Manning, $21 million – The 2017 season was nothing short of a disaster for Eli Manning. The two-time Super Bowl MVP was benched for the first time in his career, ending his active playing streak at 210 games, second all-time for QBs. Though Manning was reappointed the New York Giants starter two weeks later, the team finished with just three wins, its worst season in 40 years. But Giants fans have a few reasons to be positive: Landing explosive Penn State running back Saquon Barkley as the No. 2 pick in the NFL draft -- signed to a $31 million, four-year deal -- and the return of star receiver Odell Beckham Jr. from ankle surgery, who is looking for a big contract extension of his own. Hide Caption 9 of 21 Photos: American football's giant earners No. 12: Ben Roethlisberger, $21.85 million – Though "Big Ben" (#7) has flirted with the idea of retirement, the two-time Super Bowl champion has been a model of consistency in Pittsburgh. The Steelers' Ben Roethlisberger had another excellent season in 2017, earning his sixth Pro Bowl selection -- and fourth in a row -- before losing in the first round of the playoffs. Hide Caption 10 of 21 Photos: American football's giant earners No. 11: Russell Wilson, $21.9 million – Though standing at just 5 foot 11 inches, Russell Wilson is second all-time in NFL passer rating, trailing only Aaron Rodgers. Wilson, who clinched a Super Bowl ring in 2015, then threw the most famous interception in NFL history in the 2016 Super Bowl, is coming off a season where he led the league with 34 TD passes and the Seattle Seahawks with 586 rushing yards. Wilson signed a four-year $87.6 million deal in 2015. Hide Caption 11 of 21 Photos: American football's giant earners No. 10: Aaron Rodgers, $22 million – Still the NFL's all-time career passer rating leader, Aaron Rodgers is coming off a season that required surgery on a broken collarbone. Playing in only seven games, the injury interrupted Rodgers' eight-year playoff streak punctuated with a 2011 Super Bowl. Rodgers, 34, has two years left on a five-year, $110 million deal, but the Green Bay Packers have stated they would like to lock in an extension soon. Rodgers, however, is reportedly in no rush to sign -- although a deal will likely make him the NFL's highest paid player. Hide Caption 12 of 21 Photos: American football's giant earners No. 9: Joe Flacco, $22.13 million – Now in the last season of a three-year, $66.4 million ($44 million guaranteed) deal with the Baltimore Ravens, the 2013 Super Bowl MVP may struggle to get another large NFL payout. The 33-year-old, known for his poise and arm strength, has not led Baltimore to the playoffs since 2014 -- leading the team to draft exciting Louisville QB Lamar Jackson in the first round. Don't cry for Flacco, however: His previous deal spanned six years for $120 million. Hide Caption 13 of 21 Photos: American football's giant earners No. 8: Alex Smith, $23.5 million – Quarterback Alex Smith (#11) was a Pro Bowler in three of his five seasons with the Kansas City Chiefs -- yet landed in a Washington Redskins uniform for 2018. Going into his 13th NFL season -- which includes five playoff births -- Smith is a veteran who will steer a Redskins team coming off a disappointing 7-9 season in a tough NFC East. Hide Caption 14 of 21 Photos: American football's giant earners No. 7: Andrew Luck, $24.6 million – The forgotten man on the top 20 list, Andrew Luck signed his $123 million deal with the Indianapolis Colts after a solid 2016 campaign where he started 15 games and threw 31 TDs. Luck was also sacked a league-high 41 times, however, and promptly underwent shoulder surgery on his throwing arm. The 28-year-old Stanford alumnus missed the entire 2017 season, but is poised for a return. Given just 38% of his salary is guaranteed, Luck will be wise to avoid another sack-riddled season. Hide Caption 15 of 21 Photos: American football's giant earners No. 6: Drew Brees, $25 million – At 39, Drew Brees is coming off one of his best seasons, completing 72% of his passes for 23 TDs and just eight interceptions. Easily the greatest quarterback in Saints history -- last season marked his 11th Pro Bowl appearance -- Brees is also cherished as a humanitarian in New Orleans. The Saints were poised to make it back to the NFC title game in January, but gave up a heartbreaking last-minute touchdown to the Vikings instead. In March, Brees was rewarded with a two-year $50 million deal. Hide Caption 16 of 21 Photos: American football's giant earners No. 5: Derek Carr, $25 million – The Oakland Raiders made Derek Carr their franchise QB in 2017 with a five-year, $125 million deal -- briefly crowning the former Fresno State man as the highest paid player in the league. Carr has been a Pro-Bowler three of his first four seasons in Oakland, and should be a mainstay with the team well into its planned move to Las Vegas set for 2020. Hide Caption 17 of 21 Photos: American football's giant earners No. 4: Matthew Stafford, $27 million – Weeks before the start of the 2017 campaign, Detroit made Stafford the highest-paid player in NFL history with a five year, $135 million deal. Though he led the NFL in passing yards, the Lions failed to make the playoffs last season. Stafford is the Lions' all-time leader in passing yards and touchdowns. The 10-year veteran's 112-game starting streak is tied for 8th best all time. Hide Caption 18 of 21 Photos: American football's giant earners No. 3: Jimmy Garoppolo, $27.5 million – A former backup to Tom Brady in New England, Jimmy Garoppolo took over a terrible 1-10 San Francisco 49ers team last season and promptly won the final five games. Although he has only started seven games his entire career, Garoppolo was rewarded with a five-year, $137.5 million contract in the offseason. Now the pressure is on. Hide Caption 19 of 21 Photos: American football's giant earners No. 2: Kirk Cousins, $28 million – Unable to agree on a a long-term deal with the Washington Redskins, Cousins' patience finally paid off to the tune of a $84 million over three years with the Minnesota Vikings. After successfully betting on himself, the 2016 Pro-Bowler laid out the blueprint for future NFL contracts by receiving the highest fully guaranteed deal in league history. Hide Caption 20 of 21 Photos: American football's giant earners No. 1: Matt Ryan, $30 million – Last season was a reassuring comeback for "Matty Ice" after suffering perhaps the most remarkable blown lead in sports history at Super Bowl 51 to the New England Patriots. Four-time Pro Bowler Ryan led the Atlanta Falcons back to the playoffs in 2017, losing to eventual champions the Philadelphia Eagles in the divisional round. His five-year $150 million contract makes him the first $30 million player in NFL history. Hide Caption 21 of 21

Coming to America

Aside from teaching the rules of the game, the most important lessons learned at Pro Kick are the cultural nuances that young Australians will face in America.

"Most have never been to the US when they get there," Chapman explains. "We teach them what it's like at college.

"What the other schools are, what the rules are, having girlfriends there, the police systems, the cultural things in the North and the South, saying 'Yes ma'am' ...

"So that all they want to do when they get there is just kick the damn ball."
