title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Top CNN op-eds of 2015 (so far)|http://nytimes.com/opinions|http://nytimes.com/2015/04/02/opinions/top-cnn-opeds-april-2015/index.html||2015-04-02|Flora Zhang||So what were the most popular opinion articles in the first quarter of 2015? Here are the top 15.

Male models at Rick Owens' Paris runway show wore clothes that exposed their private parts. It's getting harder to be outrageous.

The group's actions only make sense if you realize that its aim is the apocalypse.

A debate over how women's bodies should look as they get older.

When Avery Wallace was born, the doctors told his parents, "It's a girl!" Avery says doctors couldn't have been more wrong.

Studies show we are helpless to resist sharing positive news over more serious fare.

California's Silicon Valley is one of the most prosperous places in the United States. And yet it's also home to child poverty.

Papers released in a New York trial show why thousands more Osama bin Laden documents should be released.

Left Shark's dance missteps in the Katy Perry Super Bowl halftime merely show a skilled artist losing himself in his character.

The burning alive of a Jordanian pilot could prove to have been a strategic error for ISIS.

Imagine flying over The Netherlands and seeing fat pixeled images.

Commemorating the 100th anniversary of World War I. (Published June, 2014)

Thanks, J. Crew ad, but spare me the "age-appropriate" lecture.

The tech revolution is wiping out jobs for the next generation, yet people still idolize Silicon Valley.

A true artist should interpret his subject as he sees fit, even if that means adding a dress shadow and more.

Embattled NBC News anchor Brian Williams may have some more explaining to do.

Other notable op-eds of 2015

The theme for the fifth anniversary of Let's Move! is: celebrate, challenge, champion.

The lives of people in poor countries will improve faster in the next 15 years than at any other time in history.

No high-ranking Americans joined the remarkable lineup of world leaders to denounce terrorism in Paris.

How Mr. Spock helped make space travel accessible to all.
