title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Week of chaos a reminder that Libya is still broken|http://nytimes.com/africa|http://nytimes.com/2018/09/03/africa/libya-violence-analysis-intl/index.html||2018-09-03|Nick Paton Walsh||(CNN) Shelling hits the airport. Hospitals get caught in the crossfire. Migrants huddle in detention facilities between warring militias. And standoffs between factions with impenetrable grudges hold, making a resolution seem beyond distant.

This has been much of Libya's curse since the 2011 unseating of Moammar Gadhafi, but the past week has been a particularly ghastly episode. Militias holding parts of the capital, Tripoli -- who are technically loyal to the United Nations-backed Government of National Accord (GNA) -- have been attacked by another armed group known as the 7th Brigade, from Tarhouna, to the capital's southeast. All sides accuse the other of corruption, and maintain their grip will restore order.

A young Libyan man inspects the interior of a mosque in Benghazi on February 9, 2018, after it was hit in a twin bomb attack.

Yet the opposite is obviously proving the case. Militias have been fighting or squabbling, often at a slow-burn rate, for control of parts of the city for years. The distant thump of explosions or intermittent gunfire is far from abnormal across the city's skyline. But this uptick has led the GNA to denounce the fighting -- among militias that are technically loyal to it -- and declare a state of emergency.

Ongoing clashes have left at least 47 people dead and more than 140 wounded, a Libyan ambulance official told CNN. Prisoners broke out of a jail during the unrest on Sunday, with local media reporting 400 had escaped, although a GNA official claimed it was just dozens.

Yet this is a smaller part of the wider problem. Nationwide, Libya is split yet again. In the east, General Khalifa Haftar, who decades ago helped Gadhafi's original coup, has consolidated control around the city of Benghazi. Another militia, the Misrata Brigades, dominate a port to Benghazi's west.

Read More
