title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
10 Of Netflix's Most Bizarre Secret Category Codes|http://www.huffingtonpost.in|http://www.huffingtonpost.in/2018/10/18/10-of-netflixs-most-bizarre-secret-category-codes_a_23564598/?utm_hp_ref=in-homepage|Netflix|2018-10-18|Todd Van Luling,Huffpost Us,Staff Writer,The Huffington Post||Thomas Trutschel via Getty Images These codes can help you find some odd secret categories.

Netflix uses countless “secret categories” to organize its extensive library of content. You just need special codes to access them.

Many of these secret categories can be helpful. Plenty of publications have reported on the list of codes that access categories such as “Westerns” or “Classic Comedies” or “Foreign Documentaries.” These are pretty standard.

But I’ve recently become obsessed with the more bizarre secret categories Netflix has created. For example, what does “Party On!” mean and why did Netflix dedicate an entire category to that?

Of course, Netflix doesn’t make it easy to find these secret categories; you have to manually alter your URL to insert the specific code you want.

If you copy and paste “https://www.netflix.com/browse/genre/XXXX” into your browser, then you can switch out the “X” part for the codes I’ll talk about in this article. The aforementioned “Party On!” looks like “https://www.netflix.com/browse/genre/1188010” once you switch in the code “1188010.” (You’ll need to be logged in to Netflix to view these pages.)

To find the weird and funny codes I have listed below, I had to essentially go fishing within the service. Netflix promotes various categories on the homepage and then again on its various category pages. But these pages will only show a few of the countless categories at one time, so you can wade into the Netflix content stream for quite a while without finding a category that’s interesting.

To illustrate how many weird categories Netflix has, here are just the first 10 codes on the service. Remember that “Party On!” has a code number over 1 million. I found these simply by switching the respective numbers into the place in the URL where the code goes. (N/A in the list below means Netflix doesn’t have a category for that number.)

As you can see, many of these categories have few (if any) titles listed. It’s unclear why Netflix made these codes. But for the purposes of this article, I’m only going to focus on the secret categories that actually have substantive content suggestions. That means I’m not highlighting genres like the bizarre but obscure “Cult Satanic Stories” with four titles or “Werewolf Horror Movies” with two. (Just figured I’d still mention them, though, with Halloween around the corner.)

A Netflix representative would not provide a list of the service’s codes to me, and so I had to just click around to surface what I could.

Many of the obscure categories I found seem like great ideas; you should check out “TV Shows Featuring a Strong Female Lead” with code “26118,” for instance.

Other times, I came across categories that seemed indistinguishable from each other. Does Netflix really need “Binge-worthy TV Dramas” (1019057) and “Critically-acclaimed Binge-worthy TV Shows” (2236980)? How about “Critically-acclaimed Criminal Investigation TV Shows” (2235177) and “Critically-acclaimed Binge-worthy Crime TV Shows” (2237608)?

Anyway, I ultimately focused on the 10 silliest categories I could find.
