title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Forza Horizon 4 Review: A Racing Game For People Who Don't Like Racing Games - HuffPost Verdict|http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk|http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk/entry/forza-horizon-4-review-a-racing-game-for-people-who-dont-like-racing-games-huffpost-verdict_uk_5bb60cbce4b028e1fe3b51e3?ncid=other_topnaventr_coabgdcpxri&utm_campaign=topnav||2018-10-10|Thomas Tamblyn,Technology Editor,Huffpost Uk||K E Y P O I N T S

Online play is a now turned on by default, but if you don’t want to fill your world with real people you can just as easily turn it off.

The depth to the game is quite remarkable so whether you’re an amateur or a pro the game will adapt to how you want to play.

Seasons actually alter the geography of the map too e.g. winter freezes lakes that you can then drive on.

The game’s map has four different versions: Winter, Spring, Summer and Autumn and it cycles through each on a weekly basis.

The vast map is effectively a ‘greatest hits’ of the United Kingdom, encompassing the stunning villages of the Cotswolds, the rolling hills of the South Downs and of course Scotland with the inclusion of Edinburgh and the surrounding mountains and lakes.

Set during the fictional ‘Horizon Festival’ the game sees you climb through the ranks of drivers by winning races, accomplishing over-the-top ‘showcase’ events and discovering new cars.

Forza Horizon 4 is the latest in the hugely-successful racing game and for the first time ever, it’s set in the UK.

Forza Horizon has finally come home. After three games, the Warwickshire-based Playground studios have at last chosen to set their four-wheeled festival in the rolling hills of the United Kingdom.

For those that haven’t played a Forza Horizon before the premise is simple and ludicrous: you are a driver who has arrived at the ‘Horizon Festival’. Think Glastonbury for cars and you wouldn’t be far off.

The gameplay is really accessible, and this is coming from someone who can’t play most racing games. But for purists who love their racing technical and difficult, Horizon 4 is still a Forza game at heart – which means you can tweak and adjust almost every aspect of the dizzying number of cars available.

More than anything, however, Horizon is all about the journey. Coming first is great, but it’s not a requirement as the reward system always makes you feel like you’re progressing through the festival.
