title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Prince Harry gushes about Meghan Markle and their future baby|http://www.huffingtonpost.com.au|https://au.lifestyle.yahoo.com/prince-harrys-touching-tribute-meghan-markle-future-baby-221233157.html||2018-10-20|Alicia Vrajlal,Entertainment Editor||Prince Harry’s gracious speech at the Invictus Games opening ceremony on Saturday night managed to move the nation and the world as he gushed about wife Meghan Markle and their future baby.

Taking to the stage at Sydney’s Opera House, the Duke of Sussex firstly thanked Australians for welcoming the royal couple since their arrival in Australia earlier in the week.

“First of all, thank you for the welcome you have given Meghan and I over the last few days,” said the 34-year-old.

View photos Prince Harry spoke about Meghan Markle and their future baby in his speech at the Invictus Games opening ceremony in Sydney on Saturday night. Photo: Getty More

“I have been so proud to be able to introduce my wife to you and we have been so happy to be able to celebrate the personal joy of our newest addition with you all,” he then added.

A pregnant Meghan watched her husband deliver the gushing speech, and of course couldn’t wipe the smile off her face.

Harry also spoke about the Invictus Games, a paralympic-style sporting event recognising defence veterans, which he founded in 2014.

“Our Invictus family has turned these games into a symbol of strength, honour and optimism for a new generation,” he said, giving a special message to the locals.

View photos The Duke and Duchess of Sussex enjoying the Invictus Games opening ceremony at Sydney’s Opera House. Photo: Getty More

“I have a mission for all of you Aussies. And it’s not how many shrimps you can put on the barbie,” he joked.

“Our competitors have made it to these games, most of them travelling from many thousands of miles away.

“It’s your job to cheer them on and share their stories. It’s your privilege to watch in the stands or with your friends and families around the television.

“It’s your responsibility to make sure your children know how amazing these guys and girls really are.”

View photos Meghan Markle is four months into her pregnancy. Photo: Getty More

Harry and Meghan have been in the country since Monday, for a 16-day tour.

During that time, they will take in all the sights of Australia, before heading to Fiji, Tonga and New Zealand, meeting with locals and carrying out engagements at the Invictus Games in Sydney.

Kensington Palace has revealed that their trip ‘will focus on youth leadership, and projects being undertaken by young people to address the social, economic, and environmental challenges of the region’.

Got a story tip? Send it to tips@oath.com

Want more lifestyle and celebrity news? Follow Yahoo Lifestyle on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.



Or sign up to our daily newsletter here.


