title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Saudi Arabia's Defenders Offer Conspiracy Theories About Missing Journalist|http://www.huffingtonpost.com.au|http://www.huffingtonpost.com.au/2018/10/08/saudi-arabias-defenders-offer-conspiracy-theories-about-missing-journalist_a_23554632/?utm_hp_ref=au-homepage||2018-10-08|Akbar Shahid Ahmed,Foreign Affairs Reporter,The Huffington Post||Close to two days after Turkish government sources first said prominent Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi was killed at a Saudi consulate in Turkey, Saudi authorities have yet to publicly identify his whereabouts to senators in the U.S., Khashoggi’s employer The Washington Post or journalists and experts closely following the case. Semi-official sources are filling the gap ― pushing a counter-narrative designed to protect Saudi Arabia from international criticism and turn Khashoggi’s weeklong disappearance into just one more battle in an information war between the kingdom and its regional foes.

High-profile figures close to the governments of Saudi Arabia and its key ally, the United Arab Emirates, are using social media ― notably Twitter, which is popular in the region ― to suggest that the global concern over Khashoggi is the product of a conspiracy. The tactic allows them to stoke Saudi nationalism, preparing the kingdom’s subjects and supporters to eventually defend any kind of behavior, and play victim, forcing third parties seeking real information to bend over backwards to show they’re being fair to the Saudis. All of that, of course, draws attention away from the central issue: Where is Khashoggi?

“I’ve never seen such a coordinated attack against a country like Saudi Arabia in past few days, all based on a piece of fake news by an unnamed Turkish official via Qatari media,” analyst Ghanem Nuseibeh wrote on Monday. “Islamist extremists want Saudi Arabia to fall, but this has created even greater unity amongst Saudis.”

The references to Turkey and Qatar, whose governments have had years of tensions with the Saudis and the UAE, are a way to underscore the “fake news” argument. Qatar owns the television network Al Jazeera, one of the many media organizations reporting on Khashoggi’s disappearance, and Turkish sources were responsible for the first reports that he had been killed. But what Nuseibeh and his ilk are distracting from is that it was Reuters, a source neither Turkish or Qatari, that made the professional news judgment to publish the Turkish claims, and that The New York Times and others have since published follow-up reporting on the allegation including quotes from named officials.

When Kristian Ulrichsen, a Rice University professor, responded to Nuseibeh’s tweet with a question about Khashoggi’s location, Nuseibeh had a curt response that again deflected attention from the Saudis: “Ask Erdogan and Tamim,” referring to Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Qatar’s ruler Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani.
