title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Steve Bannon Will Still Attend BBC-Hosted Debate Despite Backlash, Organisers Say|http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk|http://www.huffingtonpost.co.uk/entry/steve-bannon-will-still-attend-bbc-hosted-debate-despite-backlash-organisers-say_uk_5bcb2a63e4b0d38b5878914e?ncid=other_topnaventr_coabgdcpxri&utm_campaign=topnav||2018-10-20|George Bowden,Reporter,Huffpost Uk||ASSOCIATED PRESS Steve Bannon is still invited to an Edinburgh journalism conference despite a backlash.

Former Donald Trump advisor Steve Bannon is still invited to attend a BBC-hosted conference, despite a backlash over his inclusion. Bannon, who quit the White House after seven months as a senior counsellor to the US president, will speak at the News Xchange event in Edinburgh next month. His invitation prompted Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon to pull out of the conference, citing Bannon’s “far right, racist views”. Sturgeon confirmed her decision on Saturday, saying that while she believes “passionately in free speech”, her role requires her to “make balanced judgments”.

I believe passionately in free speech but as @ScotGovFM I have to make balanced judgments - and I will not be part of any process that risks legitimising or normalising far right, racist views. I regret that the BBC has put me and others in this position. https://t.co/5x1rHZkaR9 — Nicola Sturgeon (@NicolaSturgeon) October 20, 2018

“I will not be part of any process that risks legitimising or normalising far right, racist views,” she wrote on Twitter. “I regret that the BBC has put me and others in this position.” Sturgeon said the BBC described Bannon in an email explanation as a “powerful and influential figure... promoting an anti-elite movement”.

The email the BBC sent to my office justifying Bannon’s inclusion described him as a ‘powerful and influential figure...promoting an anti-elite movement.’ This kind of language to describe views that many would describe as fascist does seem to me to run the risk of normalisation. — Nicola Sturgeon (@NicolaSturgeon) October 20, 2018

BBC News and BBC Scotland are described as the only “host partners” for the event. The corporation said organisers for the event invited Bannon and that “good journalism in a world of fake news and disinformation is more vital than ever”. “A conference designed to analyse the big issues impacting that world isn’t an endorsement of anyone or anything - it is a function of what journalism is,” it added. Critics of Bannon believe his brand of politics to be dangerous and hateful. Following his departure from the Trump administration, Bannon has focused his attention on getting Europe’s far-right parties more power in government positions. He has been a vocal supporter of Tommy Robinson. And during a speech in March at a party congress of France’s far-right National Front in Lille, he told attendees to consider being called racist “a badge of honour”.

ASSOCIATED PRESS Nicola Sturgeon has pulled out of the News Xchange journalism conference after Steve Bannon&#39;s appearance was announced.
