title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
These Are Some Of The Oldest, Weirdest Sandwich Recipes Ever|http://www.huffingtonpost.in|http://www.huffingtonpost.in/2018/10/15/these-are-some-of-the-oldest-weirdest-sandwich-recipes-ever_a_23561502/?utm_hp_ref=in-homepage||2018-10-15|Alana Dao,Huffpost Us,On Assignment For Huffpost||Alana Dao Yes, there&#39;s a slice of banana on top of that sandwich.

Alana Dao Oyster loaves made per instructions of the 1801 edition of Charlotte Mason’s Lady’s Assistant, thought to be one of the earliest sandwich recipes ever printed.

One of the first sandwich recipes ever printed ― in the 1801 edition of The Lady’s Assistant by Charlotte Mason, an English educator and “professed housekeeper” ― appears to be for oyster loaves. The recipe in this particular book has instructions for stewing oysters to fill little loaves that were similar to mini baguettes. The recipe had evolved by the time Mary Randolph’sThe Virginia Housewife was printed in 1824. In that book, readers are instructed to empty the loaves and stew the oysters with the crumbs. This shows the recipe slowly changing into something that may have been a predecessor to the oyster po’boy.

As seen in the image below, the instructions were ... sparse.

Alana Dao The instructions for oyster loaves in the 1801 edition of Charlotte Mason’s Lady’s Assistant.

How much cream? Should it be like a roux? How many oysters? I had a lot of questions, and many remain unanswered. I got a dozen oysters that I shucked and strained, then added to a boiling mixture of cream, flour and butter. I had no idea what “cook till enough” meant, so I went with stirring until the oysters looked barely set. I split open little loaves and filled them with the creamed oysters. White, gray and beige, the oyster loaves did not look appetizing. I began to consider alternate dinner options. But then my husband took a bite and said, “Wow, this is really good!” My daughter ate the oysters on the side and asked for more. I gingerly took a bite, cream sauce running everywhere, and was pleasantly surprised. It was salty, saucy and not bad. There was lots of cream left at the end that I later found myself dipping the rest of the bread in. I kind of grossed myself out but hey, it tasted good. However, I could see why frying the oysters became more popular, though. It was all a little mushy. 1929: Russian Club Sandwich

Alana Dao Russian Club Sandwich as described in a recipe in Bee Wilson’s Sandwiches: A Global History. Club sandwiches are classically attributed to Americans but this Russian club features rounds of bread in descending height with jam, cream cheese and butter, in addition to classic club ingredients like bacon, lettuce and tomato.
