title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Why Am I So Sweaty?|http://www.huffingtonpost.com.au|http://www.huffingtonpost.com.au/2018/10/20/why-am-i-so-sweaty_a_23566962/?utm_hp_ref=au-homepage||2018-10-20|Nicole Pajer,On Assignment For Huffpost||Paula Winkler via Getty Images

It’s normal to sweat when you hit the gym for a hard session, walk down the street on a hot summer day or are relaxing in a hot bath. But have you found yourself sweating in everyday situations? Are you soaking through shirts in not-so-humid conditions? Constantly walking around with sweaty palms? And caking on the deodorant throughout the day? Sweating has many benefits. It is the body’s way of cooling itself off, it may be instrumental in healing wounds, and it has even been shown to contain an antimicrobial protein, which can help ward off bacteria while working out at the gym. (One study found that free weights can carry 362 times as many germs as a toilet seat.) Experts note, however, that it is possible to overdo it in the sweating department. Here’s why you could be so sweaty: What’s Considered Normal And What’s Cause For Concern According to Lindsey Bordone, a dermatologist at Columbia Doctors and an assistant professor of dermatology at Columbia University Medical Center, the amount of sweat a person produces is unique to that individual and can vary from day to day. “Most people sweat appropriately when their body temperature begins to rise over 98.8 degrees,” she said, noting that in a normal office setting, the majority of people do not sweat excessively. Bordone said that you should be concerned if “you notice that you sweat far more than other people in your surroundings or if there is a significant and persistent increase in your sweat production from a prior baseline amount of sweating.” “When excessive sweating is becoming inhibitory to work, social activities or causing symptoms such as rashes, dry skin or infections, then it’s time to be concerned,” said Michelle Dawson, a board-certified medical and cosmetic dermatologist at Clarkston Dermatology in Michigan. The Reasons Behind Excessive Sweat

Werayuth Tessrimuang / EyeEm via Getty Images

There are usually multiple causes of extra sweat. The most common ones include: A health condition: Oversweating can be its own health condition, which is known as hyperhidrosis. The condition is said to affect 3 percent of the population and is often hereditary. According to the American Academy of Dermatology Association, people with hyperhidrosis tend to sweat from one or two areas of the body, “most often from their palms, feet, underarms or head.” These areas may drip with sweat, while the other areas of the body remain dry. According to Erum Ilyas, a dermatologist with Montgomery Dermatology in Pennsylvania, hyperhidrosis can be primary or secondary. “Primary hyperhidrosis is from our sympathetic nervous system ― the part of our nervous system activated by the fight-or-flight response ― being overactive. Secondary hyperhidrosis is when the sweating is from another cause like a medication, hormonal changes, heart problems, cancer, infections or neurological problems,” she said. Your weight: “The most frequent cause is obesity, because it takes extra work and effort to move when severely overweight,” Bordone said. Your age: She said that sweat production changes somewhat in puberty. “Often teenagers will find that they sweat more and that their sweat can produce a more foul odor,” she said. Pregnancy: “Pregnancy is also taxing, given all the extra weight being carried around and hormone shifts, so pregnant women often overheat easily and find that they sweat significantly more,” Bordone said. Stress or anxiety: Another known cause of sweating is being in a stressful situation or battling a bout of anxiety. “Some people sweat when they are nervous. It is a sympathetic nervous system reaction, and it has nothing to do with being overheated,” said Tsippora Shainhouse, a board-certified dermatologist in Los Angeles at the Dermatology Institute and Skin Care Center. A thyroid issue: Hyperthyroidism (an overactive thyroid producing excess amounts of a hormone called thyroxine) can cause you to experience excessive sweating. If you suspect this is the case, have your doctor run a thyroid panel. This condition can often be controlled with a prescribed medication, radioactive iodine or surgery. Another underlying medical condition: Certain diseases and ailments such as diabetes, polycystic ovary syndrome in women and endocrine disturbances can also cause you to overly sweat. How To Get Your Sweating Under Control

Drew Myers / Corbis via Getty Images
