title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
17 actors who went to extreme lengths for roles|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/method-actors-who-dont-break-character-2017-9/||2017-09-14|||caption Michelle Williams dove into her role as Marilyn Monroe. source The Weinstein Company

A lot of actors will go to extremes for their movie roles, especially if there's a chance it can land them an Oscar nod.

Anne Hathaway was willing to do anything to understand the misery of her tuberculosis-ridden prostitute in "Les Misérables," while Rooney Mara and Kate Winslet found themselves taking their characters off set.

From dropping acid to strapping their knees with belts, these actors prove they're willing do anything to play the part.

Jared Leto couldn't see anyone while filming "Blade Runner: 2049."

caption Jared Leto in "Blade Runner: 2049." source Stephen Vaughan/Warner Bros.

For his latest role in the "Blade Runner" sequel, Leto wore custom contact lenses which made his eyes opaque the entire time he was on set and blocked his sight. While Leto didn't feel the transformation was all that extreme, director Denis Villeneuve was taken with the actor's commitment.

"He entered the room, and he could not see at all," Villeneuve told the Wall Street Journal. "He was walking with an assistant, very slowly. It was like seeing Jesus walking into a temple. Everybody became super silent, and there was a kind of sacred moment. Everyone was in awe."

It's not the first time Leto has done something extreme.

When he became the Joker for "Suicide Squad," the actor went full-on Mr. J. He sent Harley Quinn actress Margot Robbie a rat in a box and everyone in the cast received used condoms and anal beads.

"I did a lot of things to create a dynamic, to create an element of surprise, of spontaneity, and to really break down any kind of walls that may be there," Leto told E!. "The Joker is somebody who doesn't really respect things like personal space or boundaries."

Daniel Day-Lewis texted as Abraham Lincoln.

caption Daniel Day-Lewis in "Lincoln." source YouTube screenshot

Day-Lewis is known to do extensive research before any and all of his roles.

He refused to leave his character's wheelchair in "My Left Foot" even after filming was finished. All of the slumping caused him to eventually break two ribs. Later for "The Last of the Mohicans," Day-Lewis spent six months in the wild teaching himself to build a canoe and trap and skin animals.

When he played the 16th president in "Lincoln," the British actor kept his American accent going the entire shoot, and began signing texts "Yours, A."

His efforts have worked, because Day-Lewis has won three Oscars. He announced in July he'll be retiring from acting, but we wouldn't be surprised if that's just him prepping for another role.

Leonardo DiCaprio cut his hand and continued filming.

source Entertainment Weekly

DiCaprio didn't let a few shards of glass in his hand slow him down.

During the filming of "Django Unchained," producer Stacy Sher told Variety the actor accidentally slammed his hand on a table so hard he broke a glass, injuring his hand in the process. Instead of stopping, DiCaprio carried on and the performance made it into the final edit.

"Blood was dripping down his hand," said Sher. "He never broke character. He kept going. He was in such a zone. It was very intense. He required stitches."

Anne Hathaway lost 25 pounds for her role in "Les Mis."

caption Anne Hathaway plays a prostitute in "Les Misérables." source Universal

The actress told Vogue she ate nothing but dried oatmeal paste for two weeks to lose 25 pounds for her role in "Les Misérables."

"I had to be obsessive about it - the idea was to look near death," said Hathaway. "Looking back on the whole experience - and I don't judge it in any way - it was definitely a little nuts. It was definitely a break with reality, but I think that's who [my character] Fantine is anyway."

The actress also cut off all her hair - something hair and makeup artist Lisa Westcott and director Tom Hooper tried talking her out of - to comprehend the pain of a mother willing to do anything to keep her child alive. Her dedication paid off, as Hathaway earned an Oscar for the role.

Heath Ledger locked himself in his apartment for a month.

caption Heath Ledger's performance as the Joker was Oscar-worthy. source Warner Bros.

Ledger nearly descended into madness for his Oscar-winning role as The Joker in "The Dark Knight."

The actor locked himself in his apartment for a month prior to filming and estimated sleeping two hours per night for a week during filming because he couldn't stop thinking about the role. Crew members also worried about the actor, claiming he refused to speak to others out of character.

"If you tried to communicate with him normally instead of The Joker, he would just ignore you," a source told Fox News. "He would often come to the set to hang out even on his days off, freaking everyone out. Towards the end of filming, he was warned by people that he had gone too far."

It's thought Ledger became so engulfed in the role, that it led to his premature death from an overdose of prescription drugs before the film was released. Ledger won an Oscar posthumously for his performance.

Michelle Williams tied a belt around her knees to walk more like Marilyn Monroe.

caption Michelle Williams in "My Week With Marilyn." source The Weinstein Company

Williams listened to interviews of Marilyn on her iPod for months and even tied a belt around her knees to get her strut down when prepping for "My Week With Marilyn."

"There was a sort of a sense of a figure eight to her walk, that her shoulders were back, it looked like she had a sort of - like a balloon was attached to her breastbone," Williams told CBS. "Her nipples were always pointed up... That was the work that I wanted to start as early as possible, because I don't want any of those thoughts to be anywhere in my mind when I'm in the middle of a scene."

Kate Winslet spoke with a German accent at home.

caption Kate Winslet in "The Reader." source Weinstein Co.

While filming "The Reader," Winslet adopted a German accent and confused her kids when she kept it up at home.

"They got mightily fed up with me reading bedtime stories with a German accent," Winslet told The Sun. "They said, 'Mum, just be plain. Don't do any funny stuff like voices. Just be regular.'"

Ed Harris actually learned to paint to play "Pollock."

caption Ed Harris in "Pollock." source Sony Pictures Classics

In addition to gaining 30 pounds, Ed Harris watched a documentary and built a painting studio for "Pollock" so he could master the artist's famous painting technique.

"The only thing I had ever painted before was my house," Harris told The San Francisco Chronicle. "He happened to move in the most efficient manner the human body can move."

Joaquin Phoenix only responded to Johnny Cash's name on set.

caption Joaquin Phoenix undercover on "The Late Show With David Letterman" in February 2009. source CBS

During "Walk the Line," Phoenix took months to learn how to sing and play the guitar. He took it one step further when he asked the entire set to call him JR, Johnny Cash's real name.

"I'm embarrassed about it now," Phoenix told EW. "But when I heard 'Joaquin,' it just didn't feel right."

Phoenix shared he gets attached to all of his roles.

"When I did 'Gladiator,' I thought that I would carry a sword with me everywhere. When I did 'Ladder 49,' I didn't want to let go of my turnout gear, and I didn't believe that I could go through life without smelling smoke."

Phoenix later convinced most of the world that he had gone a bit crazy and given up acting to become a hip-hop artist after "Walk the Line." It turned out the entire bit was for a documentary "I'm Still Here," including his odd and awkward interview on Letterman.

"You've interviewed many, many people and I assumed that you would know the difference between a character and a real person, so - but I apologize," Phoenix told Letterman when he returned on the show in 2010. "I hope I didn't offend you in any way."

Christian Bale lost an extreme amount of weight before gaining it back.

caption Christian Bale has gained and lost weight for many roles. source Francois Duhamel / Sony Pictures

Bale is the master of extreme weight loss and gain on screen.

To make himself look gaunt and sickly, Bale willingly dropped to 122 pounds for his role as insomniac, Trevor Resnick in "The Machinist" only eating a can of tuna and an apple a day.

"I was intrigued by a perverse nature of mine just to see if I can go beyond what I've been told is actually safe and OK, and see if I could push the limits," Bale told the BBC.

Bale quickly gained nearly 100 pounds of muscle afterward for his role as The Dark Knight in "Batman Begins." However, director Christopher Nolan saw that as too bulky for the Caped Crusader and ordered the actor to lose 20.

Later, Bale gained 43 pounds as a con man-turned-FBI agent in "American Hustle."

"I ate lots of doughnuts, a whole lot of cheeseburgers and whatever I could get my hands on. I literally ate anything that came my way," Bale told People magazine. "I was about 185 and went up to 228."

Rooney Mara pierced her privates.

caption Rooney Mara in "The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo." source Columbia Pictures

Mara cut her hair, died it black, bleached her eyebrows, and pierced her nipples to play infamous computer hacker, Lisbeth Salander, in "The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo."

Even after filming ended, the actress admitted to Vogue that some of Lisbeth's traits have stuck and her wardrobe has completely changed.

"Before, I dressed much girlier," said Mara. "A lot of blush-colored things. Now I literally roll out of bed and put on whatever is there. I have really enjoyed being a boy this last year."

Shia LaBeouf actually dropped acid.

caption Shia LaBeouf. source Matt Winkelmeyer/Getty Images

The "Transformers" actor has pushed himself to make his latest roles seem as realistic as possible.

He said he took acid to understand the effects of the drug on his character in "The Necessary Death of Charlie Countryman." He also had sex on screen for Lars Von Trier's film "The Nymphomaniac."

LaBeouf told USA Today in 2012 that he sees his experiments as fine as long he doesn't go too far.

"I have ethics, I'm not completely out of my mind," said LaBeouf. "But I don't think there's anything wrong with sex. Sex is beautiful if it's done right. And I wouldn't just do it for no reason … Sex is different than love, and there is a separation, and that middle gap is what the movie's about."

Jim Carrey never stopped being Andy Kaufman while making "Man on the Moon."

caption Jim Carrey in "Man on the Moon." source Universal Pictures

Carrey stayed in character as comic Andy Kaufman when the cameras stopped rolling for 1999's "Man on the Moon."

"It was psychotic at times," Carrey told The Hollywood Reporter in September of being in character all the time. "Jim Carrey didn't exist at that time."

Two-hundred hours of Carrey's hijinks were shot, including moments where he scared tourists on Universal studio tours and played pranks on Danny DeVito. The footage was used for a new documentary on the movie that premiered at the Venice Film Festival.

Robert De Niro actually became a "Taxi Driver."

caption Robert De Niro in "Taxi Driver." source "Taxi Driver"/Columbia Pictures Corporation

De Niro got a taxi license for his role in "Taxi Driver." On break while filming, the actor drove around New York City in a cab.

For "Raging Bull" not only did De Niro learn to box, but he also gained 60 pounds to fit the role. Both he and Joe Pesci also lived and trained together before filming.

Jack Nicholson says he understands method acting better than anyone else.

caption Jack Nicholson in "The Shining." source Warner Bros.

"There's probably no one who understands Method acting better academically than I do, or actually uses it more in his work," Nicholson told Esquire as he recounted a call he had with Sean Penn. "But it's funny -nobody really sees that. It's perception versus reality, I suppose."

Behind-the-scenes footage from "The Shining" shows a crazed Nicholson jumping around set saying, "axe, murder, kill" while prepping for a scene.

In 1986, The New York Times published a lengthy piece on "the method and mystique" of Nicholson. The actor sang drawn-out rendition of "Three Blind Mice" for the newspaper to show them a method acting exercise he was taught by one of his acting teachers.

Adrien Brody can really play the piano.

caption Adrian Brody in "The Pianist." source Focus Features

Not only did Brody practice the piano for four hours a day to play a concert pianist in "The Pianist," the actor lost 30 pounds.

However, he told the BBC he took an even more extreme step to understand the struggles of not only his character, but those living during the Holocaust.

"I gave up my apartment, I sold my car, I disconnected the phones, and I left," said Brody. "I took two bags and my keyboard and moved to Europe."

Visit INSIDER's homepage for more.

Tilda Swinton asked for a very special set of prosthetics to play an 82-year-old man in "Suspiria."

caption According to The New York Times, Swinton's makeup took up to four hours each day. source Amazon Studios

The actress does double-time playing two characters in the movie. Swinton asked Oscar-winning makeup artist Mark Coulier to create male genitalia for her to wear on set of the movie as she played the psychoanalyst, Josef Klemperer.

"She did have us make a penis and balls," Coulier told the NYT. "She had this nice, weighty set of genitalia so that she could feel it dangling between her legs, and she managed to get it out on set on a couple of occasions."
