title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
6 business gurus, startup founders and tech CEOs reveal their best advice to a 20-year-old self|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/6-business-gurus-startup-founders-and-tech-ceos-reveal-their-best-advice-to-a-20-year-old-self--/||2018-08-28|||The world's best-known marketer Seth Godin says he is where he is today because of his failures. Nordic Business Forum

“What advice would you give to your 20-year-old self?”





We’ve rounded up several interviews with that question recently to present this life wisdom bonanza.





Here are some valuable pieces of advice from startup guru Eric Ries, business angel Hampus Jakobsson and four other highly successful people in their field.

Startup guru Eric Ries who wrote ‘The Lean Startup’ and ‘The Startup Way’

Nordic Business Forum

“The truth is that a 20-year-old version of myself wouldn’t have listened to any advice from anybody. He was not a terrific listener. But two things were hard for me in my career. I had tremendous anxiety about whether my career would work out or not. In technology, it’s easy to get the feeling that you missed all the great ideas. I remember thinking in 1998 that all good internet ideas were already taken. My advice is to not worry. Whatever your idea is, there is plenty of opportunities.”

“The second thing is to use the opportunities of youth to learn things broadly and deeply. Apprentice yourself to the smartest people you can find. Don’t listen to people who’re not smart, even if they’re successful and wealthy. When you find someone who is smart and wise, listen to what they have to say and see what they can teach you.”

Ad

Read Also: 5 entirely new kinds of CxO’s companies could need to thrive in the 21st century

Hampus Jakobsson, serial entrepreneur and one of Sweden’s most active business angels

Håkan Röjder

“Realize that your strengths and weaknesses are the same thing. It’s just different sides of the same coin. If you’re really, really good at something, it means that you’re very, very bad at the same thing – but in another way. Don’t try to even out those characteristics. If you like something and have an aptitude for it – go all-in. On the contrary, if you’re not satisfied – realize that it’s not something worth doing.”

Ad

Marketing guru Seth Godin who wrote ‘Purple Cow’ and ‘Linchpin’

Nordic Business Forum

“I’m super happy about so many things that worked out. But they wouldn’t have happened if the ones that didn’t work had not happened. So the failures have been really important to me. I guess that the only reassurance that would be nice to hear is ‘it’s going to be okay’. So that is what I would say to my younger self.”

Read Also: 'Call it atmosphere cancer' - How the world's best-known marketer would tackle global warming

Juha Koponen, CEO of Swap.com, a Finnish 'Amazon for second-hand'

Swap.com

“If I would say what I’m doing he wouldn’t believe it. I made a career shift (from nuclear physicist to entrepreneur) late in life, but I would say: Keep on what you’re doing and are good at.”

Read More: After failing in Finland, this ‘Amazon for second-hand’ is quietly taking over the US

Lena Apler, business angel and founder of the niche bank Collector

Malin Hoelstadl/SvD/TT

“Change jobs often and try out different industries. It brings new perspectives, competences and understanding of other industries. Personally, I developed late and was still childish when I was 20 years old. I was busy taking care of myself, and making a career was not even on in my mindset until I was 25 or 30 years old.”

Read More: We talked to Nordic fintech queen Lena Apler – and her message to legacy banks is reboot or die

Ola Sars, CEO of Soundtrack Your Brand

Soundtrack Your Brand

“It took a while for me to get into the music business which is my passion and calling in life. Before that, I worked in management consulting and felt awful – it was worthless. It may sound like a cliché, but my advice to a younger self is to follow your passion. When we started Pacemaker (a portable DJ service) it was a bad timing to get into the music business. In fact, it was the worst period. But I just felt that enough is enough.”
