title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
16 celebrities reveal their favorite junk foods|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/celebrities-favorite-junk-foods-2018-10/||2018-10-14|||caption Mindy Kaling is a fan of a popular fast-food chain. source Jonathan Leibson/Getty Images

Let's face it: Junk food is hard to resist - even for some of Hollywood's biggest names.

Despite the fact that may follow a strict diet and intense exercise regimen, stars still indulge in their favorite treats and fast foods from time to time.

Below, see what 16 celebrities love to eat when they're in a snacking mood, from Twix bars and Cheetos to White Castle and Taco Bell.

Chrissy Teigen really loves the nacho cheese dust on Doritos.

caption She has a unique way of enjoying the popular chip. source Christopher Polk/Getty Images

In a 2017 interview with Delish, the model said she likes to lick the "nacho cheese seasoning" off Doritos and put the chips back in the bag.

Teigen, who said she "eats fast food a few times a week," also professed her love for Taco Bell's Doritos Locos Taco.

Katy Perry has been outspoken about her love for all types of fast food.

caption The "American Idol" judge has a few favorite indulgences. source Rich Fury/Getty Images

The singer, who once dressed up as a Flamin' Hot Cheeto, told Us Weekly in 2013 that her favorite ice cream is Cold Stone Creamery's Birthday Cake Remix and her favorite comfort food is boot-shaped chicken nuggets, specifically.

Perry also once waited an hour to get food from Taco Bell in Tokyo, Japan, according to an Instagram post from 2015.

Anna Kendrick not-so-secretly loves Taco Bell.

caption If you're a fan of Kendrick's, you probably already knew this. source Rachel Murray/Getty Images

During an appearance on TBS' "Conan" in 2012, the actress revealed to Conan O'Brien that she loves Taco Bell - so much so that she wouldn't shy away from an endorsement deal.

The "Pitch Perfect" star also called herself a "reverse Gremlin" for only eating her guilty pleasure fast food after midnight.

Jimmy Fallon goes to the movies just for the popcorn.

caption He loves the buttery snack. source Theo Wargo/Getty Images

In 2017, Fallon told Parade magazine that he loves "those tri-colored tins" that come with both cheese- and caramel-flavored popcorn.

"I sometimes walk into a movie theater, get some popcorn and leave - without seeing a movie!" the late-night TV host said.

Shay Mitchell seems to love pizza, judging by her social media posts.

caption The star takes lots of photos with the cheesy food. source Jason Merritt/Getty Images

A quick scroll through the actress' Instagram page turns up numerous posts about pizza.

Mitchell has received a heart-shaped pizza from Domino's; she's posed on top of a giant box full of pizza slices; and she once said that she "always" wants pizza for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.

Jennifer Lawrence is also a huge fan of pizza.

caption The actress has talked openly about how much she loves the food. source Cindy Ord/Getty Images

This Academy Award winner's love for pizza is well-documented, from the time she ate a slice at the 2014 Oscars to the time she almost snapped at former co-star Josh Hutcherson's mom for forgetting to order pizza after a kayaking trip.

Rihanna's tour rider ensures she'll get a ton of snacks on the road.

caption The Fenty Beauty founder knows what she wants. source Theo Wargo/Getty Images

During an appearance on Ellen DeGeneres' show in 2016, the singer revealed that her tour contract includes a list of junk foods that must be stocked in her dressing room.

The indulgences include Oreos, Golden Grahams, red and white wine, cereal, soda, Cup-o-Noodles, garlic olives, Flamin' Hot Cheetos, and regular Cheetos.

"I just like to be prepared," Rihanna told DeGeneres. "You never know what mood you're gonna be in that day."

Justin Bieber loves coffee and donuts from Tim Horton's.

caption Tim Horton's can be considered the Canadian equivalent of Dunkin' Donuts. source Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images

The pop star, who is originally from Canada, has professed his love for the fast-food chain on both Twitter and Instagram.

Beyoncé has a lifetime supply of her favorite food.

caption One of the perks of being an international superstar. source Mike Coppola/Getty Images

Back in 2003, Beyoncé revealed on "The Oprah Winfrey Show" that she had been given a lifetime supply of the popular fried chicken chain, Popeye's.

According to the singer, the chain heard about her love of fried chicken and gifted her a card for free food, though she said she's been too embarrassed to use it.

According to Business Insider, Beyoncé also once spent £1,144 (about $2,261 at the time) at Nando's, another popular chicken joint, to feed both herself and her crew in Dublin, Ireland.

Selena Gomez loves herself some Hot Cheetos.

caption She's one among many stars who love the spicy snack. source Sean Zanni/Getty Images

The singer, who has shown her love for this crunchy snack on social media numerous times, is also a fan of chocolate, fried chicken, and pickles.

Britney Spears is a fan of Starbucks' Frappuccinos.

caption The pop star likes one flavor in particular. source Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images

Pop star Britney Spears is a longtime fan of Starbucks blended drinks. In 2011, Spears told a fan on Twitter that her favorite drink from Starbucks is a strawberry Frappuccino. And back in 1999, the singer said she couldn't get enough of Mocha Frappuccinos.

Heidi Klum eats McDonald's even during New York Fashion Week.

caption The supermodel has a classic order at the fast-food chain. source Danny Moloshok/Reuters

Klum told Men's Fitness in 2015 that she was "starving" and "running late" during Fashion Week, so she stopped by McDonald's to get a Big Mac and french fries.

"I love it!" the model said about the chain's signature burger. "The special sauce. That weird pickle in there."

Kim Kardashian West loves McDonald's french fries.

caption She indulges in a specific way at the fast-food chain. source Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty Images

In 2016, the KKW Beauty founder told McDonald's that she always gets an order of small fries when she visits the chain.

According to Kardashian West, she also usually gets chicken nuggets - which she dips in honey - or a cheeseburger and chicken nuggets, both of which she splits in half.

Like Kardashian West, Mindy Kaling is a longtime fan of McDonald's.

caption McDonald's has quite a few celebrity fans. source Jamie McCarthy/Getty Images

Kaling's love for the fast-food chain runs so deep, Conan O'Brien once playfully accused the actress of being on McDonald's payroll.

Indeed, at the wrap party for the cast and crew of "The Mindy Project" in 2015, McDonald's supplied everyone with Happy Meals and Shamrock Shakes, which Kaling called the "best goodie bag in history."

Liam Hemsworth and Josh Hutcherson go all out at White Castle.

caption The former co-stars are good friends. source Jamie McCarthy/Getty Images

While filming "The Hunger Games" series, the two actors split about 90 burgers from White Castle, Hemsworth told Jimmy Kimmel in 2013.

Hemsworth also revealed that he later vomited from eating so many burgers at once - which prompted the fast-food chain to donate $20,000 to a charity of his choice.

Kendall Jenner loves Twix bars.

caption The model is a fan of the chocolate candy bar. source Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty Images

In a 2016 interview with People, Jenner said her favorite go-to junk food is a Twix bar.

That same year, in a now-deleted blog post on her website and app about her "dressing room must-haves," the model said she eats chips and guac, as well as Twix bars, backstage during fashion shows.

Visit INSIDER's homepage for more.
