title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
A Finnish startup has created a fully biodegradable packaging alternative to help reduce the 8 billion tonnes of plastic we use worldwide|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/this-finnish-startup-has-created-a-fully-biodegradable-packaging-alternative-to-help-reduce-the-8-billion-tonnes-of-plastic-we-use-worldwide--/||2018-09-14|||Sulapac

Sulapac was founded by two biochemical researchers from the University of Tampere: Suvi Haimi and Laura Kyllönen.

Its biodegradable packaging is a viable alternative to the current packaging used for food, commodities, cosmetics and others. Ad

As well as everyday uses the company has ongoing partnerships with food industry giant Fazer and forestry company Stora Enso, among others.

The company has been voted as one of Helsinki’s hottest startups for 2018 by WIRED Magazine.

As far as the human race goes, plastic is a fairly new invention. Though it has existed in a variety of forms for a long time, the way we currently use it is a development less than 80 years old. And we use it for pretty much everything: from cooking to packaging to clothing and much more.

Ad

But part of the reason that we use it so much – and indeed why it’s so useful – is also one of the biggest problems we have with it. It’s pretty much indestructible. Which is great when you’re packing your lunch, but much less so when it comes to repercussions for the environment.

But far from being a helpless cog in the giant global machinery there are lots of things that we as individuals can do. You can buy a toothbrush made out of bamboo, LEGO made from sugar cane or even trainers made from ocean trash.

You can now also add to that list a replacement for all your plastic packaging, made solely from wood and natural binders, and containing no microplastics. Sulapac’s products are designed to eliminate plastic waste and develop a genuine commitment to sustainability using ecological material.

The company was founded in 2016 by two biochemists, Suvi Haimi and Laura Kyllönen.

“We know each other very well from university, when both Laura and I were studying biochemistry at Tampere”, Sulapac CEO Suvi Haimi tells Business Insider Nordic.

“I was the supervisor for Laura’s doctoral thesis on biomaterials. As a result of this we both decided to become entrepreneurs to better follow our passion. We founded Sulapac with a mission to save the planet from plastic waste.”

Suvi Haimi and Laura Kyllönen. Olga Poppius/Sulapac

Based on a report in the journal Science it is estimated that there have been over 8 billion tonnes of plastic produced worldwide. Of that 9% has been recycled, 12% incinerated but an alarming 79% has accumulated in landfills and in the environment. This means, as the BBC points out, that nearly all plastic ever produced still exists today in some form or another.

Whilst the environmental effects are well-documented, and our general mindset is slowly changing, things will unfortunately get worse before they get better. In fact the same Science report predicts that if current trends continue, then there will be over 12 billion tonnes of plastic in landfills and the environment by 2050.

“When we looked around our bathrooms and the eco-cosmetics we were using, we both saw the same thing: a plastic problem. Aware of the ever-growing amounts of plastic waste that fills our seas, we set out to find a solution,” Suvi Haimi explains.

But how did Haimi and Kyllönen go from expert academic knowledge to starting and growing a successful business?

“As biochemists specialised in biomaterials, we came up with a sustainable and beautiful alternative to plastic. Sulapac is a biodegradable and microplastic free material made from renewable sources and FSC-certified wood. It can be used as packaging for almost everything from cosmetics to foodstuff to gift boxes and more.”

“It has all the benefits of plastic, yet it biodegrades completely and leaves no microplastics behind. Our first innovation was the fully biodegradable microplastic free material recipe and the second innovation was the technology, in other words how plastic manufacturers can use their existing machinery with our material.”

This last point is a particularly salient one when it comes to Sulapac’s commercial appeal. For while the concept of the product is great for consumers (and the environment), it also appeals to manufacturers because they are able to use their existing machinery with the material, without the need to build new factories.

“It has been a big surprise for all of us to see how genuinely interested big brands are in Sulapac material. They invest lot of time in becoming the thought leaders in sustainability,” Haimi continues.

The company is currently working on a collaboration with Fazer on a luxury line of confectionery that will be ready in time for Christmas, and they also have a joint development agreement with Stora Enso to develop fully renewable caps and closures for liquid packages.

In terms of the design of the packaging, much of the inspiration comes from Finland’s beautiful natural landscapes. Haimi notes that nature has always been close to the two founders, and of course Sulapac’s origin is tied to the Finnish forest.



“For example some of the first colours we selected for Sulapac packaging originated from different Finnish berries as we both love picking berries in the forest.”

Sulapac has ambitious plans to grow its presence worldwide, and is currently working on a number of international partnerships to help them achieve this. Their ultimate goal is to become the number one choice in sustainable materials that replace plastic.
