title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
A Swedish startup that matches your resume with 200 NGOs around the world has raised $800k and partnered with Harvard|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/a-harvard-backed-swedish-startup-that-matches-your-resume-with-200-ngos-around-the-world-has-raised-$800k--/||2018-08-20|||Pixabay

Many dream of working at NGOs such as the EU, Unicef and the UN, but it’s easy to get lost in the process of applying for a job.





The Swedish career platform Impactpool has solved this problem with an algorithm matching candidates with open positions.





Impactpool just raised $800k, and partnered with Harvard, to step up expansion.

Henrik Rydén worked as senior recruiter at the UN in New York when he noticed a problem of finding the right talents, despite a growing demand for jobs at NGOs.

Ad

It was a hassle to navigate on the institutions’ websites and one had to understand a complicated terminology of titles and grades, which scared people away from applying for a job.

Impactpool has found a solution to the problem with an algorithm, matching open positions with job candidates. As an applicant you only have to upload your resume.

The response did not wait.

Ad

“We reached 100,000 users in just three months. If there's ever a chance to start up my own business, this must be it, I thought,” says co-founder Henrik Rydén.

He decided to leave his prestigious job at the UN to found Impactpool in Stockholm together with Magnus Bucht, a former colleague at the government agency Sida, and Jon Olsson, who has a working background in IT.

Three years later, Impactpool comprises 325,000 members and 200 organizations. Last week they closed a funding round of 7.5 million Swedish krona ($800k) with investors Lexis Investors to step up expansion. It was not a problem to get investors interested.

“The trickier part was to find investors who understand the impact aspect of what we do. That it’s possible to combine doing good with making money. We were kind of picky which made it take longer.”

Impactpool.org is growing by around 2,000 new members and 3 organizations every week. Screenshot

Impactpools’ early success has not gone unnoticed in the world.

“I’ve got two really surprising phone calls so far in my life. The first one a year ago, when the assistant of UN’s Secretary General wanted help with finding female leaders. The other one made me realize that we’re onto something big. Harvard called me and wanted all their political science students to get access to our platform.”

Impactpool makes money through a premium service for applicants and by charging the organizations. The newly established partnership with Ivy League University Harvard is seen as a way to improve the offer.

“We want the best students in the world to work for something that makes the world better. If we have the best resumes, we will get the best organizations and assignments.”

The startup is tapping into a bigger trend as other incentives than money grow stronger, especially among young people. Millennials want to work for a cause and not only a paycheck, according to several surveys.

“We are seeing that more people want to make a difference. The thing is that it is not only young people. I meet people on a daily basis who has a degree in engineering, worked for 10 years and tell me they’re damn tired of only focusing on profits,” says Rydén.

That is in line with the company’s long-term goal to build a network that makes the world better for 1 billion people.

Unlike what many think, there’s also big money to be made.

“An employee at the World Bank can earn 2 million Swedish krona ($220,000) a year after taxes and get free schooling for their children.”

Last year, Impactpool matched 600,000 people with NGO jobs. Economists, engineers and IT specialists are highly sought after on the platform right now. Unicef, UNHCR and Save the Children are among the most popular employers.

Henrik Rydén’s best advice on making a career in impact driven organizations is to be a realistic about which positions to apply for – and be willing to relocate for the job.

“It’s kind of like working as a diplomat. You can work for three years in the US, then three years in Geneva before moving to Addis Ababa. You will have to show that you love such a lifestyle.”
