title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
All the ways Princess Eugenie's wedding broke from royal tradition|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/princess-eugenie-wedding-broke-royal-tradition-2018-10/||2018-10-14|||caption Princess Eugenie and Jack Brooksbank's wedding had a few modern touches. source Toby Melville/WPA Pool/Getty Images

Princess Eugenie walked down the aisle to marry Jack Brooksbank on Friday in one of the most anticipated weddings of the year, and she had quite a few surprises hidden up her Peter Pilotto and Christopher De Vos-designed sleeve.

While she didn't buck quite as many royal wedding traditions as Meghan Markle and Prince Harry did back in May, Eugenie's ceremony still had more than a few unexpectedly modern touches. Even some of her guests like Cara Delevingne shunned tradition with their stylish outfits.

From her gorgeous gown to her unconventional cake, here are all the ways Princess Eugenie's wedding broke from royal tradition.

Unlike Kate Middleton and Meghan Markle, Princess Eugenie chose not to wear a veil with her dress.

caption Princess Eugenie let her tiara be the star of the show. source WPA Pool/Getty Images

Opting out of a veil was a departure from typical royal wedding style, and was perhaps done to showcase the open-back design of the dress.

Eugenie also used her dress to make an empowering statement.

source Photo by Toby Melville - WPA Pool/Getty Images)

According to a statement released by Kensington Palace, Eugenie wanted the back of the dress to purposely showcase her scar from a scoliosis correctional surgery she had at age 12.

Most royal brides don't have a maid of honor, but Princess Beatrice filled the role for Eugenie's wedding.

caption Princess Beatrice was maid of honor. source Andrew Matthews/WPA Pool/Getty Images

Kate Middleton also bucked this tradition by having her sister Pippa Middleton as her maid of honor, but Meghan Markle decided to bring back the tradition by having only children in her bridal party.

Princess Beatrice's dress was also slightly more modern than the typical bridal party style.

caption Princess Beatrice went with a deep blue dress. source WPA Pool/Getty Images

She went with a deep blue Ralph & Russo dress with a purple headband by Sarah Cant instead of matching the design of the young bridal party.

Beatrice also read a passage from "The Great Gatsby" during the ceremony.

caption Princess Beatrice's passage was slightly unconventional. source WPA Pool/Getty Images

The decision to include a passage from F. Scott Fitzgerald's 1925 novel perplexed some viewers due to the story's content, but it was an undeniably modern and unique choice.

Eugenie is also reportedly having a second reception the day after her wedding.

caption The wedding celebration might continue into the next day. source Steve Parsons/WPA Pool/Getty Images

HELLO! reports that a second funfair-themed reception is planned for the following day, though this second reception has not been officially confirmed.

For the post-wedding procession, Eugenie rode in a carriage with an enclosed design.

caption Princess Eugenie and Jack Brooksbank stayed sheltered from the strong winds. source WPA Pool/Getty Images

People reports that the choice of carriage was due to the extremely strong winds.

Princess Eugenie also decided not to change into a second dress for her wedding reception.

caption Meghan Markle changed into a second dress for her reception in May. source Steve Parsons/AP

Both Markle and Middleton changed into a second, less extravagant gown for their receptions.

Eugenie's choice of wedding cake flavor was surprisingly modern.

caption Princess Eugenie had an unconventional cake flavor. source WPA Pool/Getty Images

While most royals like Kate Middleton and Prince William opt for a traditional fruitcake, Eugenie and Brooksbank went with a red velvet and chocolate cake.

Markle and Prince Harry slightly veered from tradition by choosing a lemon elderflower cake for their big day, but Eugenie is one of the first major royals to not include any variation of fruit.

Visit INSIDER's homepage for more.
