title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Apple, Waymo, and even Amazon will have a huge advantage against Tesla in the race to launch self-driving taxis, one Wall Street analyst says|http://www.businessinsider.com/prime|https://www.businessinsider.com/tesla-may-lose-to-apple-amazon-and-waymo-in-self-driving-taxis-2018-10||2018-10-09|Mark Matousek||In the coming years, Tesla plans to launch an autonomous-mobility service, called the Tesla Network, that combines ride-hailing and car-sharing.

While CEO Elon Musk has touted the Tesla Network as an opportunity for Tesla owners to make money from their vehicles when they aren't using them, the Morgan Stanley auto analyst Adam Jonas told Business Insider that peer-to-peer car sharing would be a small percentage of the network.

Jonas said he thought Tesla would instead start an autonomous-ride-hailing service with a fleet of company-owned vehicles.

Big tech companies can offer new services at a loss

In a 2017 study, Intel and Strategy Analytics projected that the global market for autonomous-driving technology would be worth $7 trillion in 2050. That's why auto and tech companies are spending billions to develop self-driving-car systems.

Jonas said major tech companies like Alphabet (which owns the autonomous-driving company Waymo), Apple (which is developing self-driving-car technology), and Amazon (which has formed a team to explore possible uses of autonomous-driving tech) would have a big advantage over Tesla if they launched self-driving-taxi services because they could run such an operation at a loss.

Alphabet and Apple have posted billions of dollars in annual profits for over a decade, and Amazon has done so in each of the past two years. Each could use those profits to offer a new service at a lower price than competitors to gain market share and drive out rivals.

Tesla, on the other hand, has produced widening losses in the past two years and has over $3 billion in debt due through the end of 2021. While its energy business and vehicle-charging stations give the company diverse revenue streams, Tesla doesn't have the breadth of products and services that Alphabet, Apple, and Amazon do.

"If Tesla's going to run an autonomous-taxi service long-term, then at some point they need to make money on that journey," Jonas said.

Tesla did not respond to a request for comment.

Profitability is a priority for Tesla

In its 15-year history, Tesla has had just two profitable quarters and zero profitable years. But Tesla has said it expects to become consistently profitable starting in the third quarter of this year. (It has not yet disclosed its third-quarter financial performance.)

Jonas said he expected the Tesla Network to launch in the latter part of 2019 on a very limited basis. (Musk has said the service is likely to be ready by the end of next year, pending regulatory approval.)

Waymo has said its autonomous-ride-hailing service will debut in Phoenix, Arizona, before the end of this year, and while Apple and Amazon are exploring self-driving-car technology, neither has disclosed firm plans for an autonomous-taxi service.

But Jonas said the exact year any of the three would start offering an autonomous-ride-hailing service didn't matter, as they'd be better positioned than Tesla to run new services at a loss for the foreseeable future.

That advantage is a major reason Jonas' outlook on Tesla has changed, he said. He once thought that the further into the future you looked, the better Tesla's prospects appeared. Now, he said, that might have reversed.

Read more about automotive technology:
