title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Brett Kavanaugh's Yale classmate claims Kavanaugh told different story about virginity in college than in Fox News interview|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/brett-kavanaugh-fox-news-interview-yale-classmate-2018-9/||2018-09-14|||caption Judge Brett Kavanaugh and his wife, Ashley Estes Kavanaugh, on Fox News. source Screenshot/Fox News

A Yale classmate of Brett Kavanaugh, the embattled Supreme Court nominee, disputed a claim Kavanaugh made in his Fox News sit-down interview on Monday that he remained a virgin until well after high school.

The classmate, Steve Kantrowitz, tweeted that Kavanaugh "claimed otherwise" when they were freshmen.

Kavanaugh is facing two allegations of sexual misconduct stemming from the early 1980s.

A Yale classmate of Brett Kavanaugh, the embattled Supreme Court nominee, disputed a claim Kavanaugh made in his Monday sit-down interview with Fox News that he remained a virgin until well after high school.

Ad

Kavanaugh was seeking to rebut allegations of sexual misconduct that two women have leveled against him in recent days that have upended his confirmation proceedings.

"We're talking about an allegation of sexual assault. I've never sexually assaulted anyone," he told the Fox News host Martha MacCallum. "I did not have sexual intercourse or anything close to sexual intercourse in high school or for many years thereafter."

Steve Kantrowitz, a history professor at the University of Wisconsin-Madison who was in Yale's Class of 1987, said on Tuesday that Kavanaugh told him otherwise when they were freshmen.

Ad

"Perhaps Brett Kavanaugh was a virgin for many years after high school," Kantrowitz tweeted. "But he claimed otherwise in a conversation with me during our freshman year in Lawrance Hall at Yale, in the living room of my suite."

When asked for further clarification, Kantrowitz issued the following statement to Business Insider:

"I felt compelled to reveal a private conversation I had with a classmate in our freshman year at Yale because of the tremendous importance of honesty and integrity to serving as a Justice of the Supreme Court. My conversation with Brett Kavanaugh raises doubt about a statement he made on September 24 on national television. Contrary to his assertion that he remained a virgin 'for many years' after high school, during our freshman year he described losing his virginity."

He added: "I remember this distinctly because it was the first time I had had such a conversation with an acquaintance who was not a friend. I have no first-hand knowledge of any of the allegations against Judge Kavanaugh, but I thought this conversation was relevant as it goes to the question of his truthfulness."

Christine Blasey Ford has alleged that Kavanaugh pinned her to a bed and groped her during a house party in high school in the 1980s. On Sunday, The New Yorker detailed an allegation of sexual misconduct from Deborah Ramirez, who said Kavanaugh exposed himself to her during a dorm-room party at Yale during the 1983-84 school year. He has denied the allegations.

While Kavanaugh acknowledged during the interview that he attended some parties in high school and college, he said he never drank to the point where he couldn't remember what happened.

"I never did any such thing," Kavanaugh said of Ramirez's allegation, adding: "If such a thing had happened, it would've been the talk of campus. The women I knew in college and the men I knew in college said that it's inconceivable that I could've done such a thing."

James Roche, who said he was roommates with Kavanaugh during their freshman year at Yale and knew Ramirez, said on Monday that he was inclined to believe Ramirez though he "did not observe the specific incident in question."

"I cannot imagine her making this up," Roche said.
