title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
How you act when you're in love, based on your zodiac sign|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/in-love-zodiac-sign-2018-9/||2018-09-14|||caption Your sign could be saying more about you than you realize. source Masha Weisberg/Awesomeness Films/Netflix

Editor's Note: Astrology is just for fun and is not supported by scientific evidence.

"What's your sign?"

Sound familiar? This might be one among the many cheesy one-liners you've been approached with at the bar - but it's a question astrologers think you should be asking before going on a first date.

According to astrologers, your zodiac sign can reveal a lot about you - from how intelligent you are to what grocery store you should shop in - so it makes sense to Zodiac fans that the personality traits of your zodiac sign would also dictate how you act when you're in love. From the romantic Leo to the closed-off Capricorn, the love languages of the Zodiac could make Gary Chapman's head spin. Read on to find out how your sign operates in love.

Aries are charming but cocky.

caption Aries shower people in attention, but their confidence can spiral to cockiness. source The CW

When setting their sights on a potential partner, Aries will reel you in with charm and grandiose romantic gestures. But while it's lovely to be showered with attention, it's not so lovely for a relationship to feel less like a partnership and more like a dictatorship.

"Aries have a hard time compromising their individuality," Vedic Astrologer Griffin Damron said, adding that Aries "can be too self-centered" and that their biggest lesson in love is to "consider the points of view of their partners as equal to their own."

In other words, Aries come on strong and their oh-so-sexy confidence can spiral into cockiness - and that in and of itself is enough to make any partner feeling frustrated.

Tauruses love hard but don't know when to leave.

caption Tauruses don't know when to pull out of a bad relationship. source Ron Tom - ABC

Sex by the fire at night, strawberry champagne on ice - you can reference any Bruno Mars song and that'll just about sum up exactly what this Earth sign likes.

Giving and receiving gifts is the Taurus' specialty. They love hard and spoil their partners fiercely, which is great, until it's not.

"[Tauruses] tend to hold on when there's nothing left to hold on to," Susan Shumsky, a spiritual teacher and author, told INSIDER. But this, Damron added, is because the bull feels its strongest in its comfort zone.

"Tauruses are the sturdy and lazy bulls of the zodiac," he said. "They like to plod steadily in their pasture. They love what is comfortable and won't deviate from a path once they have found something that works."

It can be hard to tell when a Gemini is in love.

caption Geminis are social butterflies, which means their partners can be confused about what their relationship means. source CBS

Geminis are the social butterflies of the Zodiac, thriving in social scenarios where they're constantly surrounded by people. This can make it tricky for you to tell the difference between them liking you as a friend and wanting something more.

"Ever curious about others, [Gemini] will probe endlessly to find the most interesting person," Damron said, adding that because Gemini are on a mission to find the shiniest toy on the shelf, the air sign can be flighty and typically won't fall hard for just one person.

However, if a Gemini does fall in love, they're pretty forthright about their feelings.

"It's no wonder why the sign is symbolized by two twins endlessly chattering away," Damron said. "Their minds run at a million miles per minute, and they always want to be up-to-date with their partner. They will always be texting, calling, and video-chatting you. Geminis need constant communication in love."

Cancers show love by keeping their living spaces spotless.

caption Cancers try to make their partners feel at home. source Wikimedia

A Cancer feels in control and comfortable at the homestead, so they'll show you love by "keeping a nice home for you, cleaning, cooking - although they often expect you to do your part," Shumsky said. "They're very much homebodies, and sharing and spending time with you at home, or at their home, is their favorite romantic setting."

But, you know how mother figures can get a little overbearing? Well, Cancers have that streak in them, too.

"[Cancers] are the most domestic of all signs, always trying to make their partners feel at home," Damron said. "While this can be nice sometimes, more often than not we are not looking for a mother in a romantic partner."

Leos are loyal partners when they fall in love.

caption Leos are very faithful. source Wikimedia

As far as I can tell, Leos are the No. 1 catch out of all the Zodiac signs - because when a lion falls in love, its faithfulness is unwavering.

"[Leos] have big, unselfish hearts and their love is as big as their radiant energy," Shumsky said. And as for their performance in bed, let's just say the lion is king in places other than the jungle. Shumsky noted that Leos are both "deeply caring and generous" in the sheets. Roar.

Virgos fall hard when they feel safe — but they can be codependent.

caption Virgos only fall when they feel safe. source Warner Bros. Television

Virgos are naturally shy, so when they fall in love, it's typically with someone they feel completely safe around. The problem is, because of this, Virgos "are very dependent on their partner's faithfulness," Shumsky said, and that codependence can bring out the worst in them.

In relationships, partners will usually feed off each other's energy and play off one another's strengths and weaknesses. But when a Virgo falls in love, they tend to become kind of chameleonic in the sense that their personality starts reflecting that of their partners.

Libras are easygoing but can lose themselves in their partner.

caption Libras go with the flow and don't sweat the little things. source NBC

Libras are hopelessly devoted creatures, so they're bound to swipe left on this whole Tinder culture we've got going on.

They're also pretty go-with-the-flow, agreeable people, so say bye-bye to those silly arguments over where to go for dinner or what movie to watch on Netflix. It's likely that, nine times out of 10, they're willing to go with whatever you'd prefer. Which is great for you, but not so great for Libras in the long run.

"Libras will be the most thoughtful and considerate partners, always sacrificing and compromising their own needs for the benefit of their lover," Damron said. "This can be a problem for the Libra because they can lose themselves in their partner."

Scorpios crave connection but can get in too deep.

caption Scorpios tend to have deep relationships with their partners. source Warner Bros. Television

Scorpios have a reputation for being the most sensual sign of the Zodiac, but as much as they crave passion in between the sheets, they're also looking to make a deep connection with their partner outside the bedroom.

"Scorpios can be very deep and love to discuss all the hidden mysteries of life like psychic phenomenon, astrology, life after death, sex, and so on," Damron said.

And while this insatiable need to be close to their partner could be beneficial to their relationship, the deeper a Scorpio falls, they deeper they hurt, and this sometimes leads to jealousy, irrational behavior, anger, and outbreaks.

Sagittariuses want to show you the world, but they're not the mushiest.

caption Sagittariuses aren't usually as they initially appear. source Fox

When it comes to the Sagittarius, don't judge a book by its cover, but by the contents of its pages.

"They might not be the most emotional lovers," Shumsky said. "But they will be enthusiastic, generous, willing to try anything, and willing to please."

This fire sign has a burning passion for travel, so rather than shower you with material things, they'd much rather show you the world.

"[Sagittariuses] define their identity by their religious and philosophical beliefs, as well as their love for foreign travel," Damron said. "It is essential that they take their partner to foreign lands to expand their horizons through new seeing cultures."

Capricorns have their walls up, but they will shower you with material things.

caption Capricorns show love by working hard. source USA

Breaking through the emotional walls of a Capricorn might be challenging, but if you're both willing and able, earning a Capricorn's trust will also earn you their devotion. Still, Capricorns are probably the most difficult Zodiac sign to love, but not for a lack of trying.

According to Damron, "Capricorns are the most cold and emotionless in love," and prefer to be "cold, rational and calculating."

And because Capricorns typically value professionalism over a personal connection, if they struggle to get in touch with their own emotions, imagine how easy it must be for their partner (hint: not very). But what Capricorns lack in affection, they make up for with materialism.

Capricorns are the "masters of the material world" and are great at "organizing things, building material wealth, and creating long-term abundance," Damron said. So even though they might not tell you they love you on a daily basis, they're really good at showing it by "working hard and providing materially for their partners."

Aquarians have an odd way of showing love.

caption Aquarians can be unfocused in love. source Fox

Aquarius is a lover of all things and most people, so it's not always obvious when one person stands out over another.

"Aquarians believe they love everyone" but can come off as "emotionally cold, and even callous and curt" in romantic relationships, Shumsky said. "Their partners might feel they're not getting enough attention and personal love."

But lovers of an Aquarius shouldn't assume their partner's unconventional behavior means they aren't totally head over heels. It's just a matter of this air element preferring to show love in super creative ways.

"Rather than buying flowers on Valentine's Day, they will make you some quirky card as a testament to some avant-garde inside joke between you two," Damron explained. "Instead of dressing up and going to a nice dinner, they'd rather wear what they want and explore the quirks of the arts district. While their unconventional approach to love can throw the more traditional among us for a loop, just know that Aquarius always need to be different."

Pisces feel things deeply — but that means they can get hurt easily.

caption Pisces wear their hearts on their sleeves. source NBC

The hope that a partner can be your sun, moon, and stars is a romantic ideal found in storybooks. In real life, approaching any relationship with this hope often proves problematic and destructive, and the romantic past of a Pisces is sure to be the perfect example of this.

"Pisces can be easily blind-sighted in relationships and can be easily hurt," Shumsky told INSIDER. "They wear their hearts on their sleeves, and they feel everything deeply. And because they are so loving, they might end up choosing the wrong one who is abusive or unfaithful."

Visit INSIDER's homepage for more.
