title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
I've taught more than 500 people how to start a side hustle, and I've flagged 5 signs someone can turn their side job into a full-time career|http://www.businessinsider.com/warroom|https://www.businessinsider.com/turn-side-job-into-career-signs-2018-10||2018-10-11|Susie Moore||"Susie, I'm quitting my job this Friday — I can't believe this day has come!"

This was the second message I got in two weeks from a Side Hustle Made Simple student of mine who had stepped out into being their own boss. It's always celebratory news because transitioning out of a 9-5 is a goal for a lot of people. And starting a side hustle is their most practical, low-risk path to get there.

After coaching people from jewelry designers to aqua aerobics instructors on how to start and then skyrocket their side hustle, there are five key qualities I observe over and over again in those that take it all the way to full time entrepreneurship (like I did in 2014).

1. Hunger

To be your own boss is something you have to really want. It can't just be a nice idea or sort-of interesting to you. Running a business (even if it's just one person — you!) has endless ups and downs, so the certainty that it's the right choice for you matters.

When your clarity about being a CEO is firm, you are more in tune with your own intuition than anyone else's opinion. This is important because most people are risk averse and prefer job misery to entrepreneurial uncertainty and are happy to convince you to keep your "safe" job. Your creativity fires up, too — when you go "all in," money-making opportunities become more visible to you because they have to.

Related: The top 5 qualities of people who run successful side businesses

2. Execution

Almost every successful side hustler I've coached grows leaps and bounds every six months. This is because they constantly ask questions and learn new skills (from using Wordpress to copywriting to Facebook ad execution). Learning never ends.

But learning isn't enough. Knowledge is only potential power so applying it is where the money-making magic happens. Execution is everything. Better 27 attempts at launching a product or service and one taking off than creating the perfect product that never ships.

3. Decisiveness

The good and bad news about starting out is that there is no right way — or one way — to be successful. There are millions of ways to run a profitable side hustle that can replace and exceed your income.

This means you have to be decisive. You have to choose your product name, your product price, your sales strategy. You need to make a call on when to go to market, how to niche yourself, when to make your first hire.

Indecision will keep you at a standstill, and standing still has the same impact as falling behind.

Read more:How I went from earning $100 per hour to over $1,000 per hour working for myself

4. Perseverance

In her best-selling book "Grit," Angela Duckworth writes, "Grit has two components: passion and perseverance. This consistent pattern — perseverance scores more often topping passion scores — is a clue that passion and perseverance aren't exactly the same thing."

Put simply, passion isn't enough. You need tenacity and perseverance, too. Being able to bounce back from failures and fostering a healthy growth mindset ("What can I learn from this? Onward!") is critical. Sensitivity and dwelling on failure or criticism will sink you.

5. Comfort being seen

In order for people to buy your stuff, they have to know about you. This means the hustle applies to building an audience as much as it does build a product that delivers value. This is not easy for a lot of people, but those who push through it, win. It also gets easier with time and there are many methods even an introvert can master to get attention on their business. For example, getting free publicity has been a game-changer for my students and for me.

Instagram, SPANX, and Udemy were all side hustles once upon a time. Starting small doesn't mean you don't finish big. So, if you're hungry for it, are willing to execute, make daily decisions, persevere through obstacles, and be seen by more and more people, your resignation letter may be closer than you think, too.

Susie Moore is a New York-based high-performance coach, consultant, and author of "What If It Does Work Out?: How a Side Hustle Can Change Your Life." She's been featured on the Today show, Forbes, Oprah.com and more. If you're curious about starting (or scaling) your side hustle, sign up for her free workshop here.
