title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Kanye West mysteriously quits social media amid backlash over his pro-Trump SNL rant and plan to amend the 13th amendment|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/kanye-west-quits-twitter-instagram-snl-and-13th-amendment-backlash-2018-10/||2018-10-14|||caption Kanye West. source Kevork Djansezian/Getty Images

It's been a long fortnight for Kanye West - and it seems the rapper has had enough of being mocked and criticized, deleting his Twitter and Instagram accounts on Sunday.

He's been under fire for a recent string of controversial comments and stunts.

West supported Trump on Saturday Night Live, called for the 13th amendment to be changed, wore a "MAGA" cap with a Colin Kaepernick jersey, jumped on a table to defend Elon Musk from students, and delayed the launch of his album "Yandhi," all in the space of 10 days.

Kanye West quit social media on Sunday after a turbulent two weeks where he let loose some of his most extreme views to date, including on President Trump and slavery.

Ad

West's Instagram and Twitter accounts have been deleted, and the string of controversial events he's been central to may have something to do with it.

The recent online barrage against West started when he was filmed sporting a "Make America Great Again" hat and a Colin Kaepernick jersey at his new album preview on September 27.

caption Kanye West. source Jordan Zirm/Twitter

This stunt led some Twitter users to brand West an "oxymoron," as Trump slammed Kaepernick for kneeling during the national anthem, said players who do should be fired, and called him "a son of a b----."

Kaepernick then directly criticized Trump's "Make America Great Again" slogan by saying "America has never been great for people of color."

West has come out in support of Trump in the past and defended his decision in an interview with The New York Times - so it's no wonder people were confused with his wardrobe.

He next came under fire on September 29 for tweeting that he wanted to abolish the 13th amendment to the US constitution - the one that outlawed slavery in 1865 - before changing his mind to amending it because he thinks prisons are a form of slavery.

Here's the now unavailable tweet:

source Kanye West/Twitter

"Captain America" actor Chris Evans said that West's plan for the 13th was "absolutely terrifying."

West kept up his run of bizarre statements when he appeared on Saturday Night Live (SNL) that evening and went on a rant only seen by the studio audience after the credits rolled.

But video footage shared on YouTube shows West saying he supports the president despite people calling Trump racist, because: "If I was concerned about racism I would've moved out of America a long time ago."

West also said he was being bullied backstage before the show over his "Make America Great Again" cap. "Liberals bully you and tell you what you can and cannot wear," he said.

Watch the full rant here:

According to Deadline and People, West received a "smattering of boos," after the rant. A few claps can be heard in the videos posted to YouTube, but it's mostly an overwhelming silence as West speaks.

Comedian and SNL member Pete Davidson criticized West for the outburst, and said he left the stage after West started the rant because "I want a career."

Davidson jokingly wore a "Make Kanye 2006 Again" hat on SNL's "Weekend Update" sketch last Saturday.

caption Pete Davidson. source NBC

Singer Lana Del Rey also weighed in on what she saw, and said West needed an intervention

caption Lana Del Rey and Kanye West. source JC Olivera and Rob Kim/Getty Images

To make matters worse for West, he had to delay the launch of his new album "Yandhi", which angered fans of his music. The record was due to land on September 29, but has now been postponed until November 23.

And the criticism was capped off when West was mocked on Twitter for jumping on a table at a school in Detroit on Wednesday and asking kids to leave Elon Musk alone.

Here's a clip from the incident:
