title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Kate Middleton had a slight wardrobe malfunction at Princess Eugenie's wedding and handled it like a total pro|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/kate-middleton-wardrobe-malfunction-princess-eugenie-wedding-2018-10/||2018-10-14|||caption Kate Middleton handled her wardrobe mishap like a pro. source Gareth Fuller/ WPA Pool/ Getty Images

Kate Middleton had a slight wardrobe mishap during Princess Eugenie's royal wedding.

The strong winds almost caused her skirt to lift up, but the duchess handled it like a total pro.

The duchess managed to expertly avoid a malfunction with some quick reflexes.

Princess Eugenie's royal wedding was a stunning affair, with a beautiful gown and tons of celebrity attendees. It also happened to be quite a windy affair - so much so that guests lost hats and struggled to walk as they made their way into the chapel.

Ad

One guest who seemed to have a hard time with the weather was Kate Middleton, who narrowly avoided a Marilyn Monroe moment when a gust of wind almost caused a wardrobe malfunction with her magenta Alexander McQueen dress.

caption Middleton expertly stopped her skirt from lifting up during a gust of wind. source WPA Pool/Getty Images

In typical duchess fashion, Middleton handled the situation like a total pro. And she may even be prepared for these types of mishaps.

Ad

Beaumont Etiquette founder Myka Meier told The Sun that Middleton will often wear bodysuits or undergarments underneath her dresses that are prone to static and therefore make it harder for the fabric to fly up. Couturier Stewart Parvin also told the Daily Mail that the queen often has weights sewn into the hemlines of her skirts. While Parvin didn't mention Middleton using this hack herself, it's possible that the duchess may have learned it from the queen.

Whether or not she used a hack for today's outfit, the duchess managed to expertly avoid a malfunction with some quick reflexes and had one of the most eye-catching looks of the day.

Visit INSIDER's homepage for more.
