title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Keira Knightley denies slamming Kate Middleton's 'beautiful' post-birth appearance|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/keira-knightley-kate-middletons-post-birth-appearance-denies-criticism-essay-2018-10/||2018-10-14|||caption Keira Knightley wrote an essay that mentioned Kate Middleton. source Tim P. Whitby and Chris Jackson/Getty Images

Keira Knightley made headlines for a graphic essay she wrote called "The Weaker Sex," which is featured in the book "Feminists Don't Wear Pink (And Other Lies)."

In the essay, Knightley mentions Kate Middleton's appearance after leaving the hospital hours after the birth of Princess Charlotte in 2015.

She wrote that Middleton was "the face the world wants to see."

Keira Knightley denies criticizing Kate Middleton for her post-birth appearance in an essay she wrote.

Ad

The 33-year-old actress clarified her statements to the Press Association Thursday while at the the premiere of "Colette" at the 2018 BFI London Film Festival and said she was "misrepresented."

"I think it's very interesting that certain parts of the media have, I don't want to say purposefully, but let's just say misrepresented my meaning and exactly what I said," Knightley said. "So I would suggest to those people in the media that they re-read the entirety of the essay and not just take one bit out of it because the comments that I made are completely about our culture that silences women's truths and forces us all to hide and I absolutely did not shame anybody in any way, in fact quite the opposite."

The actress made headlines for comments she made in an essay called "The Weaker Sex," which appears in the book "Feminists Don't Wear Pink (And Other Lies)." In the essay, she mentioned Middleton's appearance after leaving St. Mary's Hospital in London with Prince William just hours after the birth of Princess Charlotte in 2015.

Ad

"We stand and watch the TV screen," Knightley wrote. "She [Kate] was out of hospital seven hours later with her face made up and high heels on. The face the world wants to see. ... Hide our pain, our bodies splitting, our breasts leaking, our hormones raging. Look beautiful. Look stylish, don't show your battleground, Kate. Seven hours after your fight with life and death, seven hours after your body breaks open, and bloody, screaming life comes out."

At the Film Festival, Knightley urged everyone to read the collection of essays.

"I suggest if you want to know about this then you should actually read the essay and all the others in the book," she said. "And the wonderful thing is that all the proceeds go to Girl Up which is a phenomenal UN foundation which gives money to organizations that are supporting girls' education, girls' safety and girls' leadership in developing countries."

Visit INSIDER's homepage for more.
