title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
'Leave me alone': Mike Pence's wife reportedly refused to kiss him after Trump won|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/mike-pences-wife-refused-to-kiss-him-on-trump-election-night-2018-9/||2018-09-14|||caption Vice President Mike Pence and his wife, Karen Pence, at a state dinner in April. source REUTERS/Joshua Roberts

Michael Lewis, the author of "Moneyball" and "The Big Short," wrote in an article in The Guardian published Thursday that Vice President Mike Pence's wife, Karen Pence, was less than pleased with President Donald Trump's victory in the moments after he won the 2016 election.

Lewis wrote that after Trump won, the vice president tried to kiss his wife, who turned away and said: "You got what you wanted, Mike. Now leave me alone."

Lewis' article centers on the problems Trump had with his transition team but contains behind-the-scenes stories from the election night.

Lewis also said Trump sat staring at the TV in disbelief when he saw he'd won.

Vice President Mike Pence tried to kiss his wife, Karen Pence, in the minutes after Donald Trump won the presidential election in November 2016, but she reportedly turned away from him and said: "You got what you wanted, Mike. Now leave me alone."

Ad

Meanwhile, Karen Pence "wouldn't so much as say hello to Trump," Michael Lewis, the author of "Moneyball" and "The Big Short," wrote in a Guardian long read based on several interviews with Trump insiders and published Thursday.

In an account of Trump's unexpected win and chaotic transition into the White House, Lewis wrote that after clinching Pennsylvania's electoral votes at 1:35 a.m. on November 9, thereby winning the election, Trump "just stared at the TV without saying anything, like a man with a pair of twos whose bluff has been called."

caption President Donald Trump. source Mark Wilson/Getty Images

According to Lewis, Trump hadn't wanted a transition team and didn't want to pay for one. Chris Christie, the former New Jersey governor, had volunteered to lead a team, and after Christie told Trump it was a legal requirement to have a plan for the presidency, Trump agreed begrudgingly, Lewis wrote.

But later, after Trump read a news article that the team had raised money to pay people on it, Trump called Christie and Steve Bannon, his campaign chief, to Trump Tower, Lewis wrote.

According to Lewis, Trump yelled: "You're stealing my money! You're stealing my f---ing money! What the f--- is this?"

Trump calmed down only when Bannon reminded him that if he didn't have a team, people might think he wasn't confident about winning, according to Lewis.
