title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
LIST: The 31 Hottest Nordic Startups to look out for in 2018, according to VCs|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/list-the-31-hottest-nordic-startups-to-look-out-for-in-2018-according-to-vcs--/||2018-07-31|||An Oura ring sells for $299 (unless you want it diamond encrusted). Oura press

We've compiled a list of 31 hot Nordic startups to watch in the coming year, by talking to a dozen venture capitalists making investments in the region and other insiders of the tech scene.

To limit the list, we only included companies founded in the last five years and narrowed it down to startups headquartered in Finland, Sweden, Norway and Denmark.

Ad

The startups featured range from those that are just getting started, to some that have already landed major rounds and gained national exposure. All of the companies featured seem poised to do big things in the coming year.

SWEDEN

Baffin Bay Networks provides a cutting-edge cyber security platform

Baffin Bay Network's threat protection platform uses advanced AI tech to help protect against cyber threats (DDoS, malware etc) even before they happen. Baffin Bay Networks

What it is: Baffin Bay Networks runs a network of distributed 'Threat Protection Centers' in order to help companies ward off cyber threats. Joakim Sundberg, CEO, claims the system offers faster and more accurate protection than alternatives.

Why it's hot: The startup has developed a system that could revolutionize security through an AI-powered, so called layered approach. Recently landed a Series A investment from EQT Ventures.

Ad

HQ: Stockholm

Founded: 2017

Raised: $7.2 million (Series A)

Detectify deploys "friendly hackers" to ward off cyber threats

Detectify CEO Rickard Carlsson's team includes a bunch of 'ethical hackers'. Detectify (blog images)

What it is: Detectify offers a SaaS tool that helps companies gauge the vulnerability of their website. The automated platform aggregates the knowledge of the company's community of 120 top-rated friendly hackers.

Why it's hot: The Swedish startup is an 'advanced' partner of Amazon Web Services, and it recently brought on board NYC-based VC firm Insight Venture Partners to scale in the US.

HQ: Stockholm

Founded: 2013

Raised: $8.9 million

DPOrganizer helps companies tackle GDPR and data privacy issues

Andreas Yannelos, Egil Bergenlind (CEO) and Sebastian Norling founded DPOrganizer in 2015. Lelle Cryssanthander, not pictured, is the startup's fourth co-founder. DPOrganizer

What it is: The startup provides a SaaS tool that helps companies manage and make sense of customers' privacy-related data.

Why it's hot: Now present in 16 countries, DPOrganizer has a scalable platform that helps companies in Europe comply with GDPR. Recently raised a follow-on Series A round from US investor Paladin Capital Group.

HQ: Stockholm

Founded: 2015

Raised: $7 million (Series A)

Read More: This former iZettle exec wants to build a global standard for managing data privacy tasks

Furhat Robotics has built the world's first social robot

What it is: Furhat is a robot that combines state of the art speech software with facial animation to achieve social competence. It's designed as a platform upon which third-parties can build their own services, as it revolutionizes human-machine interface and opens up new tasks that require social skills for AI.

Why it's hot: Backed by Balderton Capital.

HQ: Stockholm

Founded: 2014

Raised: $2.6 million

Hedvig transforms insurance

Lucas Carlsén, a former McKinsey consultant, is Hedvig's CEO and co-founder. Hedvig

What it is: Hedvig is an effort to digitalize the insurance dinosaur. The service automates consumer insurance policies, letting users report damage in an app and get money transferred immediately.

Why it's hot: Hedvig already has a partnership with international insurance giant Inter Hannover. The startup is backed by angel investors Sophia Bendz, Sven Hagströmer and Nicklas Storåkers.

HQ: Stockholm

Founded: 2016

Raised: $600k

Karma fights food waste with an app

Karma's team, from left: Hjalmar Ståhlberg Nordegren (CEO), Ludvig Berling, Elsa Bernadotte (sitting) Mattis Larsson. Karma

What it is: Karma has built an app that helps restaurants and grocers reduce their food waste by selling their surplus to consumers at reduced prices.

Why it's hot: Karma has over a quarter of a million users in Sweden, saving more than 200,000 meals to date. Backed by the likes of social-impact hub Norrsken Foundation, the startup has lately been expanding to London and continental Europe.

Raised: $5 million

HQ: Stockholm

Founded: 2015

KRY is a video consultation app backed by Europe's biggest VCs

KRY

What it does: KRY lets doctors and patients meet over video. To date, more than 100,000 people in Sweden, Norway and Spain have consulted the 300 doctors currently providing care on KRY's platform.

Why it's hot: Backed by Accel Partners, Index Ventures and Creandum, KRY is poised to become a leading force in European telemedicine. It grew revenues six-fold last year, to 100 million Swedish kronor ($11 m).

HQ: Stockholm, Sweden

Founded: 2014

Raised: €79.1 million (through Series B)

Mapillary is building a crowdsourced photo representation of the world

Jan Erik Solem, CEO, sold his previous company to Apple. He later left Apple himself in 2013 to found Mapillary. Mapillary

What it is: Mapillary is a platform for sharing geotagged photos. The photos are stitched together with the aim of making the whole world represented. Image recognition software analyses the photos and automatically tags objects - collecting data that can be used by third parties.

Why it's hot: Potential disruption of the global mapping industry. Recently raised a Series B from BMW, and added renown AI exec Till Quack to its team.

HQ: Malmö, Sweden

Founded: 2013

Raised: $24,5 million (Series B)

Natural Cycles, the first app in the world to get approved as a 'digital contraceptive'

Elina Berglund. Natural Cycles co-founder and CTO. Natural Cycles

What it is: Natural Cycles is a contraceptive app that relies on an algorithm to predict on which days women are fertile during their monthly cycle. The company says its measurements are accurate 93% of the time.

Why it's hot: Despite a controversial investigation following reports of 37 unwanted pregnancies, Natural Cycles spearheads the digital contraception space. Backed by EQT Ventures, the startup says it has more than 600,000 users worldwide.

HQ: Stockholm

Raised: $37.5 million (Series B)

Founded: 2013

Sana Labs wants to transform education using deep learning

Sana Labs

What it is: Sana Labs is an education tech startup founded by Joel Hellermark, 21. It provides an artificial-intelligence platform designed to individualize a student's learning in subjects like language and math.

Why it's hot: Digitalizing education has so far proved difficult, making it a largely untapped market. Mark Zuckerberg and Tim Cook have shown interest in Sana Labs, which recently inked a partnership with knowledge company Nationalencyclopedin AB to gain access to more than 1 million Swedish school students.

Raised: $1 million seed

HQ: Stockholm

Founded: 2016

Tessin is a leading real estate crowdfunding platform

Jonas Björkman, CEO and co-founder of Tessin, a real-estate crowdfunding platform. Tessin

What it is: A crowdfunding platform focusing on real estate projects, mostly in residential housing.

Why it's hot: Among Europe's five biggest crowdfunding platforms by capital raised, Tessin has so far returned MSEK 340 ($39 m) to investors with a 10% average annual return. The startup is eyeing Nordic expansion.

Founded: 2014

HQ: Stockholm

Raised (VC): $4 million (Series A)

Money remittance service TransferGalaxy is taking Sweden by storm

TransferGalaxy's founders were denied by over 100 investors before things took off. Yosef Mohamed, CEO, bottom left. TransferGalaxy

What it is: A low-fee money remittance service available in 25 countries in Europe and Africa. The online service provides Sweden's large expat and immigrant communities an alternative to Western Union.

Why it's hot: TransferGalaxy grew revenues eight-fold last year to some MSEK 7.7 million ($900k), and is ramping up for Europe-wide expansion with the aid of Backing Minds and other prominent investors in Sweden.

HQ: Örebro, Sweden

Founded: 2014

Raised: $4.2 million

Trine lets citizens speed up the transition to renewable energy

The Trine team. Sam Manaberi, CEO and Founder, fourth from left. Trine

What it is: Crowdfunding platform for solar projects in developing countries.

Why it's hot: TRINE is making some of the biggest crowdfunding campaigns within sustainability. Since its inception, the platform has raised more than €8 million while returning €900k to investors.

HQ: Gothenburg, Sweden

Founded: 2015

Raised: $7.5 million

DENMARK

Corti uses AI and speech recognition to predict cardiac arrests over the phone

Corti's AI acts as a digital assistant for dispatchers taking emergency calls. Corti.ai

What it does: Corti has developed an AI to help detect cardiac arrest cases faster and more accurately in real time when individuals call the official emergency number.

Why it’s hot: Corti is being rolled out across Europe and also expanding in the US. It's backed by Sunstone, ByFounders and Danny Lange, a renown AI guru who has developed applications for Amazon, Google and Microsoft.



HQ: Copenhagen, Denmark

Founded: 2014

Raised: Undisclosed

Read More: Danish startup Corti uses AI to save people from cardiac arrest

Lix Technologies wants to shake up a dusty publishing industry

Camilla Hessellund Lastein, the 25-year old founder and CEO of Lix. Lix Technologies

What it is: Lix provides a Netflix-type platform for education literature, bringing together students, publishers and teachers onto one digital space.

Why it's hot: Lix has more than half a million books on its platform and works with some of the biggest publishers in the world. Backed by Unity founder David Helgason.

HQ: Aarhus, Denmark

Founded: 2015

Raised: $8,5 million

Peakon uses AI and smart surveys to boost the 'employee experience'

Peakon's founding team, from left: Dan Rogers, Phil Chambers (CEO), Christian Holm and Kasper Hulthin. Peakon

What it is: Peakon provides an app-based employee engagement platform that analyses employee feedback and churns out actionable insights on everything from retention to performance.



Why it's hot: Peakon recently brought on board Balderton Capital as it eyes the US market. The startup grew revenues 6x last year and counts BMW, Betfair and CapGemini as clients.

HQ: Copenhagen and London

Founded: 2014

Raised: $33 million (Series B)

Read More: A Copenhagen startup gives companies like BMW and Betfair a new way to motivate their employee

Y Combinator alumnus Peergrade is saving schoolteachers' time

Peergrade is taking over the US. Peergrade

What it is: A platform for peer-based grading in schools. Students upload their completed work to Peergrade where it is automatically distributed to other students for grading and feedback.

Why it's hot: Peergrade boasts more than 100,000 users worldwide. Received backing by Y Combinator, byFounders, and Learn Capital to expand in the US.

HQ: Copenhagen

Founded: 2015

Raised: $1.9 million

Read More: Danish edtech startup is conquering the American market with a platform for peer grading

Pleo offers a 'smart' credit card for companies

Pleo co-founders Jeppe Rindom (CEO) and Niccolo Perra want to build a one-stop-shop for company spending. Pleo

What it is: Pleo helps companies tackle spending-related hassle with a 'smart' credit card for employees. It also provides a SaaS platform to automate expense reporting.



Why it's hot: Since its launch in 2017, Pleo has acquired 1,500 business customers in UK and Denmark, and will use a recent Kinnevik-led round to expand in Europe.

HQ: Copenhagen and London

Founded: 2015

Raised: $22.3 million (Series A)

Uizard uses AI to automate coders' grunt work

Uizard Technologies' AI-powered tool simplifies wireframe prototyping, a time-consuming but important element of coding. Uizard

What it is: Uizard uses AI to transform user interface images into code in building apps and websites. Its Pix2Code tool is a neural network that takes screenshots and churns out lines of code.

Why it's hot: The product could transform the work of coders, and has demonstrated accuracy upwards of 80%. Uizard recently raised seed funding from New York Venture Partners.

HQ: Copenhagen and New York

Founded: 2017

Raised: $800k

FINLAND

Blok replaces real estate brokers with an AI-powered service

Blok takes a 0,75% commission on apartments sold through its platform. The startup is led by Rudi Skogman (sitting, center). Blok

What it is: Blok helps people sell their flats by handling routine tasks such as marketing and bidding through its platform. In return, it asks a smaller commission than would human real estate brokers.



Why it's hot: Blok sold 100 apartments in Finland last year, and surpassed 2017 revenues by June. Backed by Lifeline Ventures and Bonnier, the startup eyes Nordic expansion.

HQ: Helsinki

Founded: 2017

Raised: $1.9 million

Varjo Technologies develops VR devices promising 'human-eye resolution'

The view from Varjo's mixed-reality headset. Varjo Technologies / YouTube

What it is: Varjo provides VR technology that exceeds 70 megapixel resolution.

Why it's hot: Varjo's cutting-edge tech could solve VR's quality problem years ahead of time. The company is releasing a "cinematic-quality" mixed reality headset in 2019 (see video below).

HQ: Helsinki

Founded: 2016

Raised: $15.2 million (Series A)

ICEYE is building a global satellite network that sees through clouds and darkness

ICEYE co-founder and CEO Rafal Modrzewski. ICEYE

What it is: Iceye is a space startup that equips small satellites with synthetic aperture radar (SAR) technology in order to provide Earth imagery even through clouds and darkness. Later, the startup hopes to sell data and insights to maritime, agriculture and insurance industries.

Why it's hot: On track to have an 18-satellite constellation in orbit by 2020, which would cover the entire globe. Landed Series A and B rounds within the past year from Draper Nexus Ventures, True Ventures and others.

HQ: Espoo, Finland

Founded: 2014

Raised: $53.8 million (Series B)

Read More: Mesmerizing images of Earth from Finland’s first-ever commercial satellite

Meru Health helps treat depression and burnout remotely

What it does: Meru offers an online clinic that helps treat burnout and depression. Worldwide, more than 300 million people suffer from the latter.

Why it’s hot: Finnish funds LifeLine Ventures and Reaktor Ventures have invested in Meru Health, which also recently participated in the renown Y Combinator accelerator in California. The startup has a dozen health clinic customers in Finland and the US.

HQ: Palo Alto and Helsinki, Finland

Founded: 2015

Raised: $330k

Neverthink has built a TV for the internet age

Neverthink takes content sourced from YouTube and elsewhere and packages it into thematic channels. Neverthink

What it is: Neverthink provides human-curated video content sourced from all over the internet. The streaming service resembles a TV experience in that you can flip through different channels, but not rewind or speed up the content.

Why it's hot: Shortly after launch, Neverthink achieved millions of views across more than 190 countries, without marketing. Backed by Spotify's legendary investor Pär-Jörgen Pärson through Northzone.

HQ: Espoo, Finland

Founded: 2016

Raised: $1.9 million

OURA Ring: one of the coolest sleep trackers on the market

An Oura ring sells for $299 (unless you want it diamond encrusted). Oura press

What it is: Oura Health provides wearables and an app to track things like sleep, activity levels and daily rhythm.

Why it's hot: Oura has users in some 50 countries, but is mainly focused on the US as it currently generates more than half of revenue. Top management includes seasoned executives including Twitch co-founder Kevin Lin.

HQ: Oulu, Finland

Founded: 2013 (Series B)

Raised: $13.4 million

Smartly gives Uber and Skyscanner superpowers in social marketing

Smartly CEO and co-founder Kristo Ovaska. Slush / Jussi Hellsten

What it is: Smartly.io offers a platform that lets advertisers create, automate and tailor their ad campaigns on Facebook and Instagram, resulting in less manual labor and higher ROI.

Why it's hot: Smartly doubled revenues during 2017, and topped $1 billion in annual ad spend on its platform. The startup serves clients like Uber and Skyscanner globally.

HQ: Helsinki

Founded: 2013

Raised: $22.8 million (Series A)

NORWAY

Chooose offers a subscription service for CO2-neutrality

Through Chooose, you can give a friend one year worth of climate neutrality for about €50 euros. Chooose

What it is: Chooose lets people subscribe on climate neutrality. To offset CO2, the startup buys climate quotas from companies and then basically throws them in the trash.

Why it's hot: Chooose was picked as a top 10 startup globally by Richard Branson's Extreme Tech Challenge.

HQ: Oslo

Founded: 2016

Raised: $850k

Huddly provides a smart camera to transform video meetings

Huddly's new GO camera is jam-packed with features and ships for about $500. Huddly

What it is: Huddly's portable camera enables video team meetings in high resolution.

Why it's hot: Until last year, the company’s wide-angle camera was only available via Google’s Hangouts kit, but a new model runs on Linux, Mac or Microsoft as well. Backed by Balderton Capital and currently ramping up for global expansion.

HQ: Oslo and Palo Alto

Founded: 2013

Raised: $25.1 million (Series C)

Iris.ai takes on Google Scholar with its AI research assistant

Iris CEO Anita Schjøll Brede met her founding team at Singularity University in 2015. Iris.ai

What it is: Iris.ai provides an AI assistant that helps researchers access academic research faster and then make sense of everything through a conceptual science map.

Why it's hot: Iris.ai was featured among Fast Company's 10 most innovative AI companies in 2017. The Iris team ultimately want to build a hypothesis-crunching research AI.

HQ: Oslo

Founded: 2015

Raised: $2.4 million

Sanity wants to take content creation into the 21st century

Three of Sanity's four cofounders: Øyvind Rostad, Simen Svale Skogsrud and Even Westvang. Sanity

What it is: Sanity offers software that enables content creation across web, mobile and print interfaces in real-time. Used by architects, startups and enterprises alike, the open source solution tackles pain points associated with legacy CMS systems.

Why it's hot: Sanity's product has potential to scale globally, and is already used by the likes of MIT's Center for Advanced Visual Studies.

Founded: 2017

HQ: Oslo

Raised: $1.1 million

Unacast provides a treasure trove of location data

Uncast co-founders Kjartan Slette and Thomas Walle, CEO. Unacast

What it is: A platform that provides indoor and outdoor location tracking of humans, sourced from mobile devices around the world. This helps clients gain location-based insights mainly for marketing purposes.

Why it's hot: Unlike Google and Facebook – who do have proprietary location data sets but don't sell it – Unacast opens up this data for industry use through its so called called Real World Graph. The startup has dozens of major US customers, and is backed by likes of Telia and Investinor.

Founded: 2016

HQ: New York and Oslo

Raised: $24.1 million (Series B)

All funding data from Crunchbase.
