title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Meghan Markle's makeup artist reveals his beauty secrets|https://www.businessinsider.com.au|https://www.businessinsider.com.au/meghan-markle-makeup-artist-reveals-beauty-secrets-2018-9||2018-10-15|Catalina Gonella||Celebrity makeup artist Daniel Martin is known for creating beautiful and natural makeup looks-including Meghan Markle’s wedding-day makeup. We sat down with him in New York to discuss the no-makeup makeup trend, his go-to products, and steps to beautiful, glowy skin. Martin recently partnered with Hilton as part of the Hilton Passport Project to ensure travellers have picture-perfect passports with the goal of encouraging the 60% of Americans without passports to apply for one. Following is a transcript of the video.Daniel Martin: Hi guys, I’m Daniel Martin. I’m a celebrity makeup artist based here in New York City.

I think people resonate with the makeup that I do, and the point of view that I do, because for the past few years, we’ve been living in a time where, through social media, especially Instagram, we’ve been seeing so much makeup. It almost became normal, so I feel like, especially through Meghan’s wedding, that she kinda showed the world that you don’t need a lot to be comfortable in your own skin, and I think now, people are starting to feel confident, and owning their own beauty, because they don’t need a lot.

Depending on the person, there’s definitely a lot of makeup that goes into a no-makeup makeup, but I would say that good skin care practices definitely make a huge difference in feeling confident in not putting anything on. But at the end of the day, you wanna be able to own your own beauty, whether that’s a dark eye, or a red lip, almost wearing it like a lip balm. You find what you’re most proud of, and just accentuate that, because at the end of the day, it’s about owning your own beauty and feeling confident in your own skin.

For beautiful, glowy skin, my must-have products would be… Tatcha makes this incredible primer that blurs out imperfections, and it creates this nice luminosity to the skin. Honest Beauty has this incredible magic balm that you can use on the highest parts of your face. It’s this beautiful emollient base that you can actually hydrate your lips with. I’ve used it on the collarbone, the eyelids. Also, Dior. The Backstage foundation adds this beautiful medium coverage to the skin that looks like skin, so you can use it with your finger, you can use it with a brush, but it gives you that really beautiful radiance that everybody wants, that thinks that they need a lot of time to do, but they actually don’t.

If you’re gonna splurge on any product, I would say it’s your skincare. You do wanna take care of your skin, and I feel like if you take care of your skin, whatever makeup you put on top of it will just lay beautifully, so I would spend more money on your complexion products, rather than colour.

Steps to glowy skin is to, one, make sure that the skin’s at a neutral place, being that you want to use a toner to kind of balance out the pH, so you kinda see where any redness is, or any kind of dehydration is happening on your skin. The second part is to use a moisturizer, all over the face, to really understand where your glowy parts are. And then, after you’ve done your skin care, you can go in and use foundation, usually in the T-zone, to even out any kind of redness or discoloration, and then use either a cream highlighter or a powder in the highest parts of your face, so it’d be around the cheek, brow bone, Cupid’s bow, just really pop those areas on the face.

I think what’s on trend for fall, for makeup, is you’re going to see a lot more people comfortable in their own skin, and not wearing a lot of makeup. It’s either gonna be like a funky colour in the eye, or an accent lip, or maybe something different embellished on the face, like a rhinestone glued by the eye or something. But I feel like it’s about individuality this season, and I feel like, culturally, it’s about that as well. About owning your own beauty.

NOW WATCH: Executive Life videos

Business Insider Emails & Alerts Site highlights each day to your inbox. Email Address Join

Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, and Instagram.
