title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Morgan Stanley has 4 strategies for how clients can withstand the impact of higher interest rates|http://www.businessinsider.com/prime|https://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-invest-amid-rising-interest-rates-morgan-stanley-2018-10||2018-10-13|Akin Oyedele||Any American with a credit card has probably noticed by now that interest rates are rising.

Bond-market investors have been served notice, too; last week, the yield on 10-year Treasury notes spiked to seven-year highs after strong data on the labor market supported the Federal Reserve's case to continue raising interest rates. Another trigger came after the Fed's chairman, Jerome Powell, said the central bank was a "long way" from the neutral rate that neither slows down nor speeds up the economy.

It's a development that usually spooks stock-market investors in the short term. Longer term, and contrary to popular belief, stocks tend to rise with interest rates because both are driven by strong economic conditions.

"But this time the environment is more challenging," a team of cross-asset strategists at Morgan Stanley led by Phanikiran Naraparaju said in a note on Sunday.

In part, they note that the recent move higher in bond yields has been driven by 10-year real yields (adjusted for inflation) breaking out of a stable five-year range. Such breakouts routinely happen near the end of market cycles, but there's still uncertainty about how risk assets will withstand this one.

Also, higher interest rates usually strengthen the dollar, which in turn crimps the earnings of US multinationals. Strategists at both Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Deutsche Bank have told clients that the dollar, which has gained nearly 4% this year against other G10 currencies, is switching from being a tailwind to a headwind for company earnings.

Naraparaju and his colleagues added that low interest rates had helped to support US equity multiples in the nine-year bull market, which many investors already consider stretched. Further increases in rates would push US equity premiums over bonds "from average to rich," they said.

Taking all of this into account, Morgan Stanley offered four ways investors could withstand higher interest rates:
