title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
PewDiePie could be about to lose his King of YouTube crown to a Bollywood production company|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/pewdiepie-could-lose-his-king-of-youtube-crown-to-a-channel-called-t-series--/||2018-09-04|||Felix Kjellberg, or as he is better known, PewDiePie, has been the “king” of YouTube since 2013.

The 28-year-old Swede’s channel is the most subscribed on the video-sharing website for five years now, and at the time of writing, he has amassed around 66 million subscribers, which is no mean feat.

Ad

While nobody expected him to attain such a presence on YouTube when he started in 2010, there must have been many more that would not have expected his record to ever be surpassed, not for a long time.

But that time has come.

Kjellberg has a new challenger, and its name is T-Series.

Ad

Boasting around 60 million subscribers, T-Series is actually a Bollywood production company based in India that first started its YouTube channel in 2006.

On its page, T-Series describes itself as “India’s largest Music Label & Movie Studio, (and) believes in bringing world close (sic) together through its music”.

The channel is gaining as much as 150,000 subscribers per day on average, while Kjellberg gains about 30,000 subscribers a day.

The videos that can be found on its channel are slickly produced Bollywood music videos that feature some of India’s biggest musicians, artists and directors.

This is a huge contrast to Kjellberg, whose videos mostly consist of him in his house making his own content, whether it be through his “news” series or reacting to the eccentricities of the internet.

According to analytical site Social Blade, T-Series will overtake PewDiePie as the most subscribed channel in less than six months.

It estimates that PewDiePie will hit 71 million subscribers in six months, while T-Series will have hit 85 million.

The huge population of India itself may be a reason for T-Series’ continued growth and the dominant Bollywood channel already holds the record for most views – 47 billion and counting.

T-Series also has the edge in terms of how much it can upload per day, currently averaging six to seven videos posted every day. T-Series has uploaded about 12,600 videos in total, compared to Kjellberg’s tally of about 3600.

So what does Kjellberg think about having his crown usurped?

The Swede does not appear to be taking it very seriously as he posted a sarcastic and humorous video in response to the emergence of T-Series:

For now, PewDiePie is still on top of the YouTube throne.

For now.
