title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Police say a man shot his cousin over salt and vinegar potato chips: 'Do not touch my chips, or I'll shoot you'|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/police-say-a-man-shot-his-cousin-over-potato-chips-2018-10/||2018-10-14|||caption Ryan Langdale. source The Colleton County Sheriff’s Office

A 19-year-old South Carolina man shot his 17-year-old cousin over salt and vinegar potato chips.

"Do not touch my chips, or I'll shoot you," Ryan Dean Langdale told his cousin before he shot him, according to a report from The Colleton County Sheriff's Office.

Langdale initially told authorities that his cousin mistakenly shot himself.

Now Langdale faces charges of attempted murder, possession of a weapon during the commission of a violent crime, and obstruction of justice.

The victim says he never actually ate the chips.

Police say a 19-year-old man from South Carolina shot his 17-year-old cousin over salt and vinegar potato chips last month, The Post and Courier reported.

Ad

"Do not touch my chips, or I'll shoot you," Ryan Dean Langdale told his cousin before he shot him, according to an incident report from The Colleton County Sheriff's Office.

When authorities arrived on the scene on September 29, Langdale had a different story. The 19-year-old alleged that his cousin had accidentally shot himself in the chest while cleaning a hunting rifle - and the victim corroborated the count, The Post and Courier reported.

But authorities were skeptical, claiming it would be "impossible" for a person to accidentally shoot themselves from that angle, according to Captain Jason Chapman.

Ad

"We knew from the beginning that something wasn't right," Chapman told The Post and Courier. "The more we looked into it, the more it seemed odd."

When the 17-year-old victim woke up from the life-saving surgery a week after the incident, he reportedly confirmed the officer's suspicions.

That's when he told them about the potato chips.

After Langdale threatened the 17-year-old, he went into a different room to get his gun "the next thing he knew the rifle went off," according to an incident report from The Colleton County Sheriff's Office. The 17-year-old said he initially told the officers the other story because Langdale told him to.

The victim says he never ate the chips in question, according to The Post and Courier.

Langdale was booked on Wednesday on charges of attempted murder, possession of a weapon during the commission of a violent crime, and obstruction of justice. His bail was set to $55,000.

Visit INSIDER's homepage for more.
