title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Prince's estate is asking Donald Trump to 'cease all use' of his music at his rallies|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/princes-estate-asks-president-donald-trump-to-stop-music-campaign-rallies-2018-10/||2018-10-14|||caption Prince's estate wants Trump to stop using his music at campaign rallies. source AP Photo/Danny Moloshok; AP Photo/Evan Vucci

Prince's estate asked President Donald Trump to stop playing his music at campaign rallies.

The Trump campaign used "Purple Rain" at a recent rally, leading his estate to ask him to stop.

Other artists have asked Trump to stop using their music, but the campaign often ignores them.

Prince's estate has asked President Donald Trump to stop using the artist's music at his rallies.

Ad

"The Prince Estate has never given permission to President Trump or The White House to use Prince's songs and have requested that they cease all use immediately," the estate wrote in a statement on Thursday.

The statement was organized by Jeremiah Freed, according to the Star-Tribune, after he saw a video of "Purple Rain" playing at a recent rally. Freed, who is also known as Dr. Funkenberry, is a radio host who was friendly with Prince and who maintains ties with his family.

📬

“The Prince Estate has never given permission to President Trump or The White House to use Prince’s songs and have requested that they cease all use immediately.” — Omarr Baker (@PRNFamily) October 12, 2018

Prince, who died in 2016, was notorious for keeping a tight leash on the rights to his music. His estate is similarly notorious in shutting down unauthorized use of his songs.

Trump continues to regularly host rallies for his 2020 presidential campaign, and for other Republicans running for election. Many other artists have asked him to stop using their songs, including Neil Young, Adele, Elton John, and Steven Tyler of Aerosmith.

They are often ignored, as was the case for the Rolling Stones. Despite repeated attempts to stop Trump from using their songs, the campaign plays "You Can't Always Get What You Want" at the end of every Trump rally,

A representative for the Trump campaign didn't immediately respond to INSIDER's request for comment.
