title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Princess Eugenie's wedding dress combined elements of Meghan Markle's and Kate Middleton's, but it had one major difference|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/princess-eugenie-wedding-dress-compared-to-meghan-markle-kate-middleton-2018-10/||2018-10-14|||caption Princess Eugenie's gown fused traditional elements with her own unique style. source Chris Jackson / Getty

Princess Eugenie's wedding gown featured design elements similar to both Kate Middleton's and Meghan Markle's.

Like Middleton, Eugenie opted for a ballgown-style dress with floral embroidery and a flowing train.

Her open neckline and long sleeves were reminiscent of Markle's gown.

Eugenie incorporated her own personal style by not wearing a veil and opting for a unique, low-back design.

Like Kate Middleton and Meghan Markle, Princess Eugenie walked down the aisle for her royal wedding on Friday in an elegant gown that fused traditional design elements with a few touches of her own personal style.

Ad

Eugenie went with a gown by British-based designers Peter Pilotto and Christopher De Vos for her big day.

caption Eugenie's wedding gown was designed by Peter Pilotto and Christopher De Vos. source WPA Pool/Getty Images

The ballgown-style design of Eugenie's dress calls to mind the Alexander McQueen dress Middleton wore for her wedding in April 2011, which also featured floral embroidery and a flowing train.

Ad

caption Kate Middleton wore an Alexander McQueen wedding gown. source Getty/Pascal Le Segretain

Meanwhile, the open neckline of Eugenie's gown is reminiscent of the bateau neckline of Markle's Givenchy wedding dress, which has become a staple in the Duchess of Sussex's wardrobe. The full, long-sleeved design of Eugenie's dress is also quite similar to Markle's.

caption Meghan Markle wearing her Givenchy wedding gown. source Ben Stansall/WPA Pool/Getty Images

However, Eugenie's bridal ensemble has one major difference. The princess chose not to wear a veil as she walked down the aisle, perhaps to highlight the low-back design that showcased her scar from a scoliosis correctional surgery. Middleton went with a traditional veil for her wedding, while Markle opted for a 16-foot-long one for hers.

caption Eugenie chose a dress with a low back. source Photo by Toby Melville - WPA Pool/Getty Images)

Ultimately, Eugenie's gown fused all of the best parts of Middleton and Markle's dresses, while adding her own unique sense of style.

Visit INSIDER's homepage for more.
