title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Richard Branson tells Elon Musk to stop tweeting and get some more sleep|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/richard-branson-elon-musk-stop-tweeting-and-get-more-sleep-2018-10/||2018-10-14|||caption Elon Musk and Richard Branson. source Getty

Richard Branson told Elon Musk that he needed to delegate more to improve his quality of life outside Tesla.

In comments to CNBC, Branson also told Musk to stop tweeting and focus on what he's good at.

"He's a wonderfully creative person, but he shouldn't be getting very little sleep," Branson said.

Richard Branson has some advice for Elon Musk, billionaire to billionaire: Cool your jets.

Ad

It has been a frenetic few months for the Tesla CEO. He had a meltdown over his workload in an interview with The New York Times and nearly dragged his company into a Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit.

The two billionaires are locked in a space race alongside Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, but that didn't stop Branson, the founder of Virgin Group, from sharing some friendly words of encouragement for Musk.

"He's got to find time for himself. He's got to find time for his health and for his family," Branson told CNBC on Tuesday. "He's a wonderfully creative person, but he shouldn't be getting very little sleep."

Ad

Branson added that Musk "needs to learn the art of delegation" and should work to "find a fantastic team of people around him."

Branson appeared to be advocating a model closer to how he runs Virgin Group. Josh Bayliss is the CEO, while Peter Norris is the company's chairman. Branson is a director, but he also acts as an ambassador for the firm and continues to have a big say about its future.

It chimes with the advice of others who have told Musk to find a chief operating officer for Tesla who's capable of overseeing the day-to-day operations of the electric-car maker. But even if Musk decides to ignore that suggestion, Tesla will have to find a new chairman to replace him, a condition of his settlement with the SEC; Al Gore has been named as a potential candidate.

But Branson's words of wisdom did not stop there - he also told Musk to stop tweeting.

"Don't feel you have to put out tweets and things about public shareholders - leave the public game to people who enjoy the public game," Branson said. "He obviously doesn't enjoy it, so clear the deck so that you can actually then concentrate on the creative side."
