title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Spotify caters to artists by helping them connect with their biggest fans|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/spotify-caters-to-artists-by-helping-them-connect-with-their-biggest-fans--/||2018-08-16|||Spotify CEO and co-founder Daniel Ek at a Q&A session at the new headquarters in Stockholm, Sweden. TT / Henrik Montgomery

At a press event at Spotify’s new headquarters in Stockholm, Sweden, Spotify’s CEO and co-founder Daniel Ek answered questions about the music streaming giant’s strategies going forward.

Responding to a question about Spotify’s strategy regarding contracts directly with artists, Daniel Ek answers that Spotify is better served by developing platforms and tools that allow the artists to reach more fans.

Ad

”80% of the artists’ incomes come from tours,” he says.

That means that the best way for artists to make more money is not to get more royalties from exclusive contracts with streaming platforms, but to build their reach – and that’s where Spotify’s ‘Fans First’ strategy comes in.

A major part of the ‘Fans First’ concept is that Spotify helps arrange private gigs to establish better connections between the artists and their biggest fans.

Ad

An example of this is when the Swedish rapper Silvana Imam invited 70 fans to a back yard gig in Stockholm, which moved the fans to tears. Another is when the singer songwriter Tomas Andersson Wij made a break in one of his concerts to give fans the chance to ask questions. A third example is when Foo Fighters had a concert for a crowd of only a hundred or so people.

By developing their fan relationships, artists can win ambassadors which help them grow their fan base – ultimately, it’s an investment in future revenues from tours.

‘Fans First’ also includes other aspects of artists’ brand management that serve to increase sales.

”We also help with merchandising and tour support and we give fans exclusive possibilities of buying tickets before they are released,” says Nordic Managing Director Jenny Hermanson.

By offering these kinds of services Spotify hopes that artists will want to make their music available on the platform even though royalties are quite small compared to the days of CDs.

Another service offered to artists is to let them record their music at Spotify’s studios. Lykke Li, Frist Aid Kit, Seinabo Sey and Hov1 have already recorded in a studio at Spotify’s new office which opened in April.

The recordings are part of the concept called Spotify Singles, in which artists come in to record a new version of one of their own songs coupled with a cover of song by another artist – effectively allowing artists to make more money by recycling old material and co-branding themselves with other artists.
