title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Swedish business leaders complain that politicians aren't ambitious enough - threats of leaving the country are coming true|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/swedish-business-leaders-complain-that-politicians-arent-ambitious-enough-threats-of-leaving-the-country-are-coming-true--/||2018-08-10|||L: Sebastian Siemiatkowski R: Stefan Löfven Collage: Adam Wrafter/SvD/TT & Jonas Ekströmer/TT

Among business leaders and executives, there is a growing concern that politicians are drifting towards an anti-business sentiment. This according to Financial Times.

Sebastian Siemiatkowski, CEO one of Sweden’s largest fintech startups Klarna, formulate his critique towards Swedish politicians in three words: they lack ambition.

Ad

The fintech CEO’s complaint is rather straightforward to most.

Even though the Swedish economy has been booming like few others in Europe, and even though public debt and unemployment are low – the government has kept from spending.

The conclusion from the business leaders that Financial Times has talked to is clear: Swedish politicians are not focusing on measures to improve the business climate.

Ad

Sebastian Siemiatkowski is daydreaming of a metro line to Vaxholm – an island in Stockholm’s archipelago. Others find it frustrating that there have been endless discussions about high-speed trains, but cannot see any such train being underway.

Lack of skilled workers in the tech industry is another ongoing debate that is giving business leaders a hefty headache, as minor oversights cause deportations of desperately needed engineers and programmers. Non-functioning integration of migrants into the workforce is another issue.

ALSO READ: Why a Swedish law intended to protect berry pickers is forcing a Stockholm startup to open a new branch – in Pakistan

A number of tech companies have been urging for reforms in order to keep up the status of Stockholm as one of the best startup capitals in Europe.

The Spotify founders Daniel Ek and Martin Lorentzon voiced their concerns regarding talent, stock options and housing shortage in an open letter to Swedish politicians a few years ago. Implying that thousands of Spotify jobs could be lost if nothing changed soon.

In a tweet at the time, Martin Lorentzon pinpointed the issue: “It’s a lot easier to grow in New York than in Stockholm.”

The threats of leaving Sweden for other more business-friendly environments are seemingly coming true.

Today, Spotify seems to be doing more and more of their business from the New York office whereas other big names such as Skype and iZettle have chosen to sell out to US corporations altogether.

READ ALSO: The CMO of $2,5 billion Klarna explains how fintech startups can gain an edge – and product is not everything
