title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
The one proven thing you can do to get on your boss's good side|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/how-to-impress-your-boss-2017-10/||2017-10-14|||caption Figuring out how to become a star employee in your boss's eyes can be tricky. source Unsplash/Tim Gouw

It can be tough to know how to wow your boss.

But several bosses and career counselors told INSIDER that there is one way to wow any boss.

You have to show initiative by anticipating what needs done, and helping out.

You can also ask what needs done if you can't quite figure it out.

But be sure that you can do the extra work well, and it's not actually causing more work for your boss.

Whether you're just starting out in your career or you've been in your job field a long time, you probably still wonder how to keep your boss happy.

It should be a no brainer, right? Do good work and your boss should be pleased with you. But you've probably already figured out that work life is not always as clear-cut as that.

Ad

INSIDER asked real bosses and managers, and a great majority told us that the best way to get on their good side is a simple concept that just takes practice: show initiative.

Specifically, many bosses told us that they find it most appealing when their employees are go-getters, and they anticipate a need the company or their boss has, and takes care of it.

"The best way to get on my good side is to anticipate needs - whether they're my needs, our clients, or even fellow employees," Shannon Fitzgerald, founder and creative director of BRAZENBRANDING, told INSIDER. "I've got a million things to think about, when someone thinks of something before I do it shows empathy, intuition, and a willingness to put the company's needs first."

Anticipating that need shows that you go above and beyond in your work and are willing to go the extra mile without complaining.

Ad

caption Help out where you can, even if it's not exactly your job. source Climate KIC/Unsplash.com

"You are assigned work each and every day and if you outdo yourself most of the time, then rest assured you will get onto the good side of your boss, not instantly but eventually," Harshit Jain, owner of Hobbiesphere told INSIDER.

If you don't know what needs to be done or how you can help, just ask.

Of course, no one is expecting you to be a mind reader, so showing the initiative and asking can also prove to your boss that you want more responsibility and are there to help them.

"Whenever you are finished with whatever work is on your plate, ask your boss if there are other things you can do to help," Peter Yan, co-founder of ResumeGo, told INSIDER. If you are proactive about going above and beyond your basic duties, your boss will see you as a hardworking employee who may be ready for more responsibility."

But be sure you're not overstepping or bothering your boss for tasks more than you're actually helping them.

"Think about the week and the things that make your boss overwhelmed, and figure out what you can help with and what you can't," Valerie Streif, senior advisor with thementat.com, told INSIDER. "Don't overstep your boundaries or take on too much. Help them out but don't become annoying, and know when you should just stay in your cube and do your own work."

Like all things, work takes a delicate balance. As long as you're thoughtful and considerate, extra effort at work can put you into a great place with your boss.

Visit INSIDER's homepage for more.
