title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
The wife of the missing Interpol president says her husband sent her an image of a knife as a danger signal|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/ap-wife-says-interpol-officer-sent-knife-image-as-danger-signal-2018-10/||2018-10-14|||caption Interpol President Meng Hongwei. source Wong Maye-E/AP

Interpol said on Sunday that Meng Hongwei resigned as its president after China's ruling Communist Party announced that he was under investigation on suspicion of unspecified legal violations.

Meng was first reported missing after traveling to China on September 29.

Meng's wife said her husband sent her an image of a knife before he disappeared during a trip to China, their native country, as a signal that he was in danger.

Interpol says a Chinese official who was reported missing has resigned as head of the international police agency. The update came after Beijing announced Meng Hongwei was under investigation in China.

Ad

Interpol said Sunday night that Meng had resigned as president of the agency's executive committee, effectively immediately. It did not say why.

Meng is China's vice minister of public security. His whereabouts and status have been mysteries since his wife reported Friday that she had not heard from him since he went to China at the end of September.

The disciplinary organ of China's ruling Communist Party said Sunday night that Meng is "currently under the monitoring and investigation" of China's new anti-corruption body, for unspecified legal violations.

Ad

Meng's wife said Sunday her husband sent her an image of a knife before he disappeared during a trip to their native China.

Making her first public comments on the mystery surrounding Meng's whereabouts, Grace Meng told reporters in Lyon, France, on Sunday she thinks the knife was her husband's way of trying to tell her he was in danger.

She says she has had no further contact with him since the message that was sent on Sept. 25. She says four minutes before Meng shared the image, he had sent a message saying, "Wait for my call."

She says she hasn't heard from him since and does not know what happened to him.

The party's watchdog for graft and political disloyalty said on its website late Sunday that Meng Hongwei, China's vice minister of public security, is "suspected of violating the law and is currently under the monitoring and investigation" of China's new anti-corruption body, the National Supervision Commission.

Meng, a Chinese national, was first reported missing on September 29. Interpol said in a statement it was "aware" of the Meng's alleged disappearance, but that France and China was responsible for the investigation.

Rights groups previously said that Beijing could use Meng's position to arrest and deport its critics abroad.

Interpol is headquartered in Lyon.
