title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
The Swedish startup that sells old food online rescued 2,000 tons from being wasted and doubled earnings|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/the-swedish-online-store-for-old-food-saved-2000-tons-from-being-wasted-and-doubled-earnings--/||2018-08-02|||MatSmart

MatSmart was started in 2014 as an online shop where customers can find bargains on consumer products that would otherwise have been discarded. Up to half of the 1.3 million tons of food discarded in Sweden is deemed unnecessary waste and could still be eaten, according to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Common reasons for the waste are changes in packaging, overproduction, wrong season, or because the best before date has passed.

The concept is a hit, especially among deal-sensitive consumers, who find products from MatSmart at 10%-80% of the normal retail price.

Ad

“Our customers are so proud of their bargains that they like to show them off in social media,” CEO and co-founder Karl Andersson told Hållbarhetspodden.

By 2016, Matsmart had managed to rescue a total of 400 tons from being wasted.

In 2017 alone, the company sold over 2,000 tons of consumer products. The huge increase in sales volume propelled annual revenue to SEK 159.3 million – a 130% increase in comparison to the SEK 69.3 million the year before.

Ad

“The biggest reason [for the growth] is that new customers have found us, but also our customers’ loyalty – when they’ve found us they like to return,” CEO and co-founder Karl Andersson explains to Di Digital.

MatSmart has already expanded to Norway and Finland, but is eyeing the European continent. For that, and for building the logistics needed to keep up the growth rate, more capital will be needed, Di Digital reports.

Matsmart has gathered a prominent group of investors: Norrsken Foundation, GP Bullhound, Edastra, D-Ax, Northzone, IKEA, and angel investors Jonas Nordlander, Filip Engelbert and Johan Kleberg.
