title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
The Finnish AI-driven real estate platform Kodit just raised EUR 1.7 million with its eyes set on European expansion|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/the-finnish-ai-driven-real-estate-platform-kodit-has-just-closed-a-eur-1.7-million-seed-round-with-its-eyes-set-on-european-expansion--/||2018-08-24|||The Finnish automated real estate platform Kodit has just closed a EUR 1.7 million seed round to fuel its European expansion.

Kodit is a proptech company that uses machine learning to give home owners wishing to sell their properties an offer and cash payment within 24 hours. Algorithms evaluate the property based on data so that Kodit can buy the property directly from the owners and assume the risk and costs of selling it on the market.

Ad

That means you can quickly and easily sell your house without the hassle of enlisting a real estate agent and preparing the home for viewings, and without the inconvenience of matching moving out dates with others.

After Kodit has purchased a property it goes on to sell it on the market for a profit at a later date. Over the past eight months Kodit has purchased 80 properties and sold more than 40.

Now the company is looking to expand and that requires capital. Today the startup announced the close a EUR 1.7 million seed round led by Speedinvest x and the Norwegian international media group Schibsted. Icebreaker.vc provided additional funding, the company writes in a press release.

Ad

Kodit is not the only company that follows the same business model, but it calls itself the leading real estate iBuyer in europe. To keep that lead the company is set on expansion.

Kodit currently operates in seven cities across Finland and Estonia, and the capital injection is to be used to help Kodit begin operating in more European cities – especially in Southern and Eastern Europe.

Having Schibsted on board will likely prove valuable as the media group owns various real estate marketplaces around the world. Recently, Kodit partnered successfully with one of them: Sanoma’s Oikotie is Finland’s biggest real estate listing site and housing marketplace. Partnering with other similar sites will help Kodit retain its momentum as the leading real estate iBuyer in Europe.

“We have followed the progress of Kodit.io closely since their launch and have been impressed by the team’s execution skills, attitude and capacity. We are excited to join this journey and support the growth and scaling into more countries and cities. Kodit.io has a chance to become the leader in many markets in Europe,“ says Jussi Lystimäki, Vice President for the global investment team at Schibsted Marketplaces.
