title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
The 10 most important things in the world right now|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/the-10-most-important-things-in-the-world-right-now-october-9-2018-10/||2018-10-14|||caption Google CEO Sundar Pichai. source Justin Sullivan/Getty Images

Hello! Here's what's happening on Tuesday.

Ad

1. US President Donald Trump apologized to Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh for "pain and suffering" he faced during the confirmation process. Trump was talking about the fallout from multiple sexual misconduct allegations leveled against Kavanaugh during the final weeks of his confirmation hearings in the Senate.

2. A second man accused of poisoning former Russian spy Sergei Skripal has been identified as a Russian military doctor. The two men have claimed they visited the UK as "tourists."

3. China says it detained missing Interpol chief Meng Hongwei over bribery allegations. Meng vanished after traveling to China, his native country, on September 29, and had resigned from his post.

Ad

4. A top Trump campaign official requested help from an Israeli company to use social media to manipulate the 2016 election. Rick Gates has also pleaded guilty to conspiracy against the United States and making false statements.

5. Google shutdown its Google+ social network after reports of a huge security lapse. Company managers decided not to disclose it for fear of backlash following the Cambridge Analytica scandal at Facebook.

6. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo asked Saudi Arabia to conduct a "thorough investigation into disappearance of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. Khashoggi is a prominent critic of the Saudi government and his disappearance has sparked international fear that he may have been harmed.

7. Two people have died after a massive sinkhole opened up underneath them on a sidewalk in China. Four people fell into the hole, including a child who survived the drop.

8. The International Monetary Fund reduced its outlook on the global economy. It cited rising interest rates and heightened trade tensions.

9. President Trump joked that he likes Taylor Swift's music "25% less now" after her endorsement of two Democratic candidates. Swift broke her political silence on Sunday night.

10. Hurricane Michael is heading toward Florida's Gulf Coast and is expected to make landfall on Wednesday. Experts say the storm is likely to reach at least Category 3 strength by Tuesday night local time, making it a major hurricane.

And finally...

Google just shut down Google+ for good - here are 17 other Google products that bombed, died, or disappeared
