title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Trump says Mattis is 'sort of a Democrat' and that the defense secretary 'may leave' the administration|https://nordic.businessinsider.com|https://nordic.businessinsider.com/trump-mattis-sort-of-a-democrat-may-leave-administration-2018-10/||2018-10-14|||caption President Donald Trump and Defense Secretary Mattis. source Chris Kleponis-Pool/Getty Images

President Donald Trump told CBS' "60 Minutes" that Defense Secretary Jim Mattis is "sort of a Democrat" and that "he may leave" the administration after months of speculation on the former Marine Corps General's standing.

"It could be that he is [leaving]," Trump said. "I think he's sort of a Democrat if you want to know the truth. But General Mattis is a good guy. We get along very well."

Mattis, for his part, has consistently dismissed reports that he's going anywhere, but has also repeatedly been seen as slow-walking some of Trump's more out-there military policy moves, like his ban on transgender military service.

President Donald Trump told CBS' "60 Minutes" that Defense Secretary Jim Mattis is "sort of a Democrat" and that "he may leave" the administration after months of speculation on the former Marine Corps General's standing.

Ad

In an episode set to run at 10 p.m. ET on Sunday, Trump pushed back on media reports that his administration is in chaos due to a high turnover of key officials.

"It's fake news," that the White House is in chaos, Trump said. "I'm changing things around and I'm entitled to."

"I have people now on standby that will be phenomenal," he continued. "I think I have a great Cabinet. There are some people that I'm not happy with. I have some people that I'm not thrilled with, and there are some people that I'm beyond thrilled with."

Ad

Asked specifically if Mattis would leave, after weeks of intensifying rumors about his impending departure, Trump left his fate ambiguous while revealing that he sees his top military official as a member of the political party that he's described as the opposition and obstructionists.

The president said Mattis hasn't told him he's leaving. "I had lunch with him two days ago, I have a very good relationship with him. It could be that he is [leaving]," Trump said.

He continued: "I think he's sort of a Democrat if you want to know the truth. But General Mattis is a good guy. We get along very well. He may leave at some point. I mean, at some point, everybody leaves. People leave, that's Washington."

While Trump denied Mattis' impending departure, he did seem to confirm a Politico report that Trump has come to see Mattis as not living up to his "Mad Dog" nickname, to the president's frustration. Politico reported Trump has taken to calling Mattis "Moderate Dog."

Mattis, for his part, has consistently dismissed reports that he's going anywhere, but has also repeatedly been seen as slow-walking some of Trump's more unconventional military policy moves, like his ban on transgender military service.

Watch a clip of the '60 Minutes' interview below:
