title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Pete Davidson Doesn't Need a Shirt at Fashion Week, Obviously|http://www.elle.com/fashion|http://www.elle.com/fashion/a23019896/tldr-nyfw-recap-lil-kim-reigns-pete-davidson-doesnt-need-a-shirt-and-denim-still-rules/||2018-09-07|Faran Krentcil||TLDR—Too Long, Didn't Read—is ELLE.com's answer to interminable, indigestible fashion week round-ups. Our promise: It's the only daily recap that will make you feel centered, fulfilled, and not criminally insane.

We begin with a thirst trap, literally. It's 92 degrees in New York City, with direct sun and stifling humidity turning Manhattan into a kind of kiln. What better time to sit on asphalt for 45 minutes watching Justin Bieber watch some hoodies go down John Elliott's skate park runway? Here he is entering the show, while telepathically telling Hailey Baldwin about the new psalm he wrote.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

Nicholas Hunt

B + B weren't the only luminaries to check out the L.A. designer's elevated streetwear (read: expensive but nicely fitted pastel sweatshirts). Pete Davidson also arrived, and—much to the delight of many fashion editors—he was sans shirt. Davidson is a) already engaged and b) about nine years old, so I didn't really get the lust factor, but who am I to argue with women smart enough to order their Hedi for Celine (no accent) bags in advance? Instead, I'm just gonna leave this here...if you're a '90s kid, you'll get it.

Powder and Pete. Getty Images

Meanwhile, back on the runways, a trend has already emerged: celebrity models. At CLDM, Tavi Gevinson hit the catwalk in a sculpted knit top that would look great on Rei from Star Wars. (No sarcasm here: Tavi is the warrior princess of her own cerebral galaxy, and deserves some designer armor for her reign.) Offset made his catwalk debut at Jeremy Scott as his paramour Cardi B. swooned on. And at VFiles, Lil' Kim closed out the night in a neon Judy Jetson dress by Paul Cupo.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

Tavi Gevinson at CDLM, Offset at Jeremy Scott, and Lil Kim at VFILES Getty Images

One wonderful jolt came from Matthew Adams Dolan, who made tailored suits in Midori green and Laffy Taffy pink, along with the ingenious denim mash-ups that helped make him a buzzy new name. It was damn cool without being alienating, and beautifully made, too.

Getty Images Frazer Harrison

There was something really soothing about the black nails at Tom Ford, too. Manicured and gleaming, they seemed like ocean-smoothed stones instead of Mall Goth staples. We haven't seen a black statement nail on a luxury runway since Chanel did their Black Satin polish in 2007, which famously sold out worldwide in a matter of hours. Tom Ford already made that happen with his Drake lipstick. Will this trend be next?

Getty Images Jamie McCarthy

If you'd rather have a statement top than a statement nail, Jeremy Scott and Cardi B. are here for you... but they're not here for Kavanaugh, and that means we love them even more!

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

Getty Images Theo Wargo

I would be remiss not to mention that Bliss and Mischief, the Los Angeles denim and vintage store, just opened a pop-up on Elizabeth Street in New York. The good news is, they have some really gorgeous embroidered jeans. The bad news is, the shop is already mobbed with Instagram babes, which means your perfect pre-Proenza street style shot might be double exposure, instead.

Bliss + Mischief

And finally, Chiara Ferragni got married like five seconds ago and she's already making Ralph Lauren #sponcon for New York Fashion Week. Here's the sweater she's wearing below... let's take bets on how long it takes to sell out. The loser has to buy Pete Davidson a shirt. (Or ask Bieber, nicely, for some extra merch.)
