title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
As rates rise, these sectors are getting crushed|http://www.cnbc.com/keris-lahiff|http://finance.yahoo.com/blogs/talking-numbers/as-rates-rise--these-sectors-are-getting-crushed-231923513.html|react-text: 39 Originals /react-text|2015-03-04|Lawrence Lewitinn||Things have gotten very interesting in the bond market.

Bonds have been selling off, causing interest rates to rise. At the start of February, the yield on the U.S. Treasury 10-year note was 1.65 percent. It is currently hovering near the 2.1 percent mark.

Meanwhile, stocks have rallied. The S&P 500 is up nearly 3 percent in the past month.

But while it may seem that money is flowing out of bonds and into stocks, one trader says it’s a bit more nuanced than that.

“We’ve seen a repositioning in the market for higher rates,” said Gina Sanchez, founder of Chantico Global. For that reason, she sees investors shying away from interest-sensitive investments like REITs and utilities.

Sanchez, a CNBC contributor, says the market is expecting a Federal Reserve rate hike in June. That cites the growing difference in yields between short-term and long-term Treasury bonds.

The technicals agree with Sanchez, based on the chart work of Craig Johnson, senior technical research strategist at Piper Jaffray. He said that many of the utilities and REITs are breaking below their 200-day moving averages.

“Very clearly, there is a repositioning starting to happen among investors and they are getting ready for a rate hike,” said Johnson, who is also president of the Market Technicians Association.

He also finds evidence of higher rates ahead in the chart of the 10-year Treasury yield. Johnson says that the rate has bounced from support around the 1.7 percent level and now headed back to meet resistance in an area between 2.3 and 2.4 percent.

“From our perspective, the world is positioning toward higher rates,” said Johnson. However, he doesn’t see a full-fledged rotation out of bonds and into stocks just yet.

“To have a real long-term asset allocation shift out of fixed income into equities, we really need to see the very long-term downtrend of 10-year bond yields violated,” he said.

That downtrend began from the peak in rates in 1981. But for a rotation to be confirmed, Johnson needs to see the 10-year yield to rise above 3.75 percent.

“That’s going to take a while,” he said. “It’s not happening this year.”

But Johnson added, “I do think we are in that direction.”
