title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Emotiv's Tan Le on mind control, being an outsider and fleeing Vietnam|http://www.cnbc.com/world|http://www.cnbc.com/2018/07/31/tan-le--making-miracles-with-her-mind.html||2018-07-31|Lucy Handley||When Tan Le was a child, she took a boat trip that would set the tone for the rest of her life. In 1981, aged just four years old, her mother Mai Ho carried her and her sister Min to a secret hiding place in Ho Chi Minh City, in their home country of Vietnam. It was midnight and the family had to keep quiet through the early hours.

“At about four o’clock (in the morning), a man come and he said that we can start to go one by one. And so I (carried) Min and Le and we got onto a small boat … At the time, when the sea (was) very rough, they were scared and they (held) onto me very tight and I keep telling them that we will be okay,” Ho told CNBC’s “The Brave Ones.”

“It was our family decision to take the children to a safer place, a place where they (could) actually appreciate the real freedom and change and (have the) opportunity to start a life again.” Mai Ho, Tan Le’s mother

The family traveled with more than 150 others on the South China Sea, escaping a southern Vietnam that had become inhospitable when Saigon (now Ho Chi Minh City) fell to troops from the north, marking the end of the Vietnam War in 1975. Five nights after they were huddled onto the boat, and after running out of food and water, they were rescued by a British oil tanker, which took them to Malaysia where they spent three months in a refugee camp.

“It was our family decision to take the children to a safer place, a place where they (could) actually appreciate the real freedom and change and (have the) opportunity to start a life again,” Ho said. In case the family was arrested, Le’s father stayed behind with the agreement that he would get the family released if they ended up in jail.

Eventually, they found their way to Australia, where Le went to school in a Melbourne suburb. “It was a really incredible feeling because Australia gave us so much more. It was really expansive, not just in terms of geographic space, but also the room to think, to expand our horizons, to start again. But to pursue opportunities that we would never have imagined had we not taken that leap,” she told “The Brave Ones.”

“Never really fully fitting in means that you… don’t really develop a strong sense of a comfort zone.” Tan Le

But settling in to Australian life was difficult. “It’s quite challenging growing up in a place where you look different than anybody else. You have a totally different history. You eat totally different food, you go home and speak a totally different language,” she said.

“Of course, you get teased, you eat different food at lunchtime. You go into the schoolyard and all the kids have their own food which is (a) Vegemite sandwich and I would have some food that my mum made and I was terrified of opening it up because Asian food has a smell.”

Le’s mother worked multiple jobs to put Le and her sister through school, and was very keen for the family to continue to speak Vietnamese at home, to make sure they didn’t forget their heritage.

“I completely understand her perspective: after taking these two precious children through this ordeal, (my mother felt) I have them finally in a place where they can have a new life, they are prized like my prized possession, they are everything to me. I sacrificed everything — I left my husband behind; I left my family, my roots, my heritage behind in order to have this new life, for these two children.”

But the impact of being an outsider gave Le strength. “Never really fully fitting in means that you… don’t really develop a strong sense of a comfort zone and so you feel quite comfortable pushing outside your comfort zone in order to find new opportunities, and so I think that has been a very powerful and enriching part of my life — even though it was extremely difficult when I lived through it,” she said.
