title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
First Cold of the Season or Fall Allergies?|http://thebostonchannel.com/health|http://www.htvnativeadsolutions.com/wcvb/2017/10/06/first-cold-of-the-season-or-fall-allergies/||2017-10-06|||By StoryStudio

T he leaves are changing, the weather has turned cool and just like clockwork you’re sneezing, sniffling and constantly feeling the need to blow your nose. So is it a cold or fall allergies? Graham Snyder, MD, in the Division of Infectious Disease at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center has tips for telling the difference and advice for a speedy recovery.

“Fall can be a tricky time on the allergy calendar,” says Snyder. “In the northeast pollen from plants such as ragweed is a common cause of allergy symptoms.”

What makes this time of year even trickier is that just as fall allergy season is getting started, the first wave of cold and flu season is coming on as well. That can make it hard to tell what’s really causing all that sneezing and congestion.

One way you can spot the difference early on is that a head cold caused by a virus may start with a sore throat and a lot of coughing. With a virus infection, you may have a mild fever and fatigue.

“Fall allergies and a head cold both cause a runny nose and sinus congestion,” says Snyder. “At first, it may be hard to tell if you have symptoms of seasonal allergies or the start of a viral infection.”

Another important distinction is that colds make you feel worse quickly over a day and then subside after one to two weeks, while allergies are steady and may be irritating for weeks. If it’s been two weeks and your symptoms aren’t getting any better, you should talk to your doctor about the possibility of seasonal allergies.

“While allergies affect many people, they are not contagious,” says Dr. Snyder. “You may suspect a contagious viral infection if you have been close to family, friends or co-workers who were sick before you. With a cold it is important to cover your cough, use a tissue to sneeze in, clean your hands often and consider staying home from work.”

For allergies, helpful treatment options include over-the-counter sinus saline rinse, antihistamines or nasal decongestants. If you have a cold, you may feel better with saline rinse and decongestants, but since it is a virus it isn’t treatable with antibiotics. To feel better you should get rest, stay hydrated, and talk with your doctor about medications that reduce symptoms.

“Antibiotics won’t improve your runny nose and congestion symptoms, whether they are due to allergies or a virus infection. If symptoms continue for more than 1 to 2 weeks or you are concerned you may have the flu, talk with your doctor about what may be causing your symptoms.”
