title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Attitudes to free speech are changing, and Steve Bannon has something to do with it|http://www.bbc.com/uk|http://www.bbc.com/2018/09/08/uk/free-speech-bannon-universities-opinion-intl/index.html||2018-09-08|Angela Dewan||London (CNN) Two widely read magazines made two different decisions about Steve Bannon this week. The New Yorker on Monday announced it was disinviting Bannon as a speaker at its October festival, while the London-based Economist on Tuesday defended its decision to keep him on at its own event this month.

The magazines received a torrent of criticism that the media is giving a megaphone to a dangerous white nationalist of waning relevance.

But what happened to the argument of free speech? The idea that anyone can say anything they like, as long as it doesn't cause harm to someone else, is unraveling in the age of online fake news, alternative facts, trolling and conspiracy theories. Steve Bannon has something to do with all those things.

Steve Bannon, the former chief strategist for U.S. President Donald Trump, speaks at an event hosted by the weekly right-wing Swiss magazine Die Weltwoche on March 6, 2018 in Zurich, Switzerland.

Free speech advocates have no problem giving Bannon more room to speak. As the Economist's editor-in-chief Zanny Minton Beddoes points out : "He helped propel Donald Trump to the White House and he is advising the populist far right in several European countries where they are close to power or in government." She has a point. Bannon may have come from the fringe, but he's been undoubtedly influential in creating Donald Trump's America, as the President's former chief strategist, and he's now trying to spread his wings abroad.

The New Yorker's editor, David Remnick, went the other way, saying that while he had hoped for "a rigorous interview" onstage with Bannon to challenge his views, he conceded there were better ways to achieve that scrutiny than by giving Bannon yet another platform.

The growing number of these "disinvitations" -- many of them at universities in both the US and UK -- shows a shift in attitudes to free speech, and even a desire to move its goalposts.

What some people pointed out to the New Yorker about Bannon was that his presence at the festival was not just a matter of the freedom to express one's views. It was also about his track record in distributing false information through Breitbart, the website he co-founded in 2007.

In 2016, Bannon himself told news site Mother Jones that he had made Breitbart the platform for the "alt-right," a group that bands together white nationalists, neo-Nazis and other fringe far-right groups. Although he was ousted by Breitbart shortly after Trump dropped him as an adviser, Bannon is inseparable from Breitbart and the values it espouses.

A generational shift

Attitudes to free speech depend on age. Forty percent of millennials in the US -- where free speech is enshrined in its constitution -- think the government should be able to prevent people from saying things that offend minority groups, according to a survey by the Pew Research Center . That drops to 27% among generation X respondents, 24% among baby boomers and just 12% for "silent generation Americans," aged 73 to 90.

But free speech has always had its restrictions. In most developed countries, you'd be fined for defaming someone's character. Inciting hatred with speech is illegal in some parts of the world, and privacy can also place limitations on what you say.

Some millennials say they want to see these restrictions widen. This desire is most visible in the growing number of "no-platforming" cases at universities, where people are denied invitations to speak, or their invitations are rescinded.

In the UK, radical feminists with views that students consider transphobic have been no-platformed. A senior academic hosted secret events on the discredited theory of eugenics at the University College London for three years, prompting a backlash from students.

Former Breitbart senior editor Milo Yiannopolous is another figure who has repeatedly been no-platformed , both in the US and UK.

Photos: A history of free speech on campus College and universities have long been hubs of free speech -- and hotbeds of protest. In this 1964 photo, civil rights groups picket a speech by Alabama Gov. George Wallace at the University of Cincinnati in Cincinnati, Ohio. The controversial Wallace, a leading spokesman for segregation, denounced a newly passed civil rights bill as a federal power grab. Hide Caption 1 of 15 Photos: A history of free speech on campus James Meredith is accompanied by two federal marshals and surrounded by jeering students after registering for entry at the University of Mississippi in the fall of 1962. The first African-American student to enroll at the school, Meredith suffered constant harassment on campus before graduating the next year. Hide Caption 2 of 15 Photos: A history of free speech on campus College students from various nearby schools march down Commonwealth Avenue in Boston in October of 1965 to protest US involvement in Vietnam. Several hundred students -- most from Boston University, Harvard and MIT -- marched in the parade before attending a rally on Boston Common. Hide Caption 3 of 15 Photos: A history of free speech on campus In 1968 students at Columbia University in New York took over four buildings on campus to protest the school's affiliation with the Institute for Defense Analyses, a weapons research think tank. The students were also protesting Columbia's plan to construct a segregated gymnasium in the city-owned Morningside Park. The sit-in ended violently when police stormed the buildings. Hide Caption 4 of 15 Photos: A history of free speech on campus Mario Savio, right, one of the leaders of the 1964-65 Free Speech Movement at the University of California-Berkeley, speaks at a "Peoples Park" rally on campus in June 1969. The movement, which protested the university's ban on student political activity, soon spread to other campuses. Hide Caption 5 of 15 Photos: A history of free speech on campus Dorothy Goldsmith and Rita Webb squirt Kenneth Opat with oil in 1970 at Tulane University in New Orleans, where students tagged Louisiana's oil industry with the "polluter of the month" award. The demonstration on April 22 of that year was part of the first annual observance of Earth Day. Hide Caption 6 of 15 Photos: A history of free speech on campus Mary Ann Vecchio screams as she kneels by the body of student Jeffrey Miller, shot by National Guardsmen on May 4, 1970, on the campus of Kent State University in Kent, Ohio. The National Guard had been called in to help quell several days of unrest on campus by crowds of demonstrators protesting the war in Vietnam. This photo was published worldwide, won a Pulitzer and helped sway public sentiment against the war. Hide Caption 7 of 15 Photos: A history of free speech on campus A group of anti-apartheid demonstrators find themselves blocked off behind the municipal building in Berkeley, California on April 18, 1985, after marching from campus to a courthouse where 20 demonstrators were awaiting arraignment. The protesters became trapped in an alley after police closed a gate on them. Hide Caption 8 of 15 Photos: A history of free speech on campus A teddy bear adorns one more than 400 panels of the AIDS Memorial Quilt as volunteers stand by silently during a 1996 ceremony at Elmhurst College in Elmhurst, Ilinois. Hide Caption 9 of 15 Photos: A history of free speech on campus New York University students lay down to form a peace symbol on the floor of the NYU library in 2003 to protest the impending war in Iraq. Hide Caption 10 of 15 Photos: A history of free speech on campus University of Missouri graduate student Jonathan Butler, second from right, speaks on November 9, 2015, following the announcement that University of Missouri System President Tim Wolfe would resign. Wolfe stepped down amid widespread protests over his handling of racial tensions at the Columbia, Missouri school. Hide Caption 11 of 15 Photos: A history of free speech on campus Yale University students and faculty rally November 9, 2015, to demand the school become more inclusive to all students. The "March of Resilience" followed several racially charged incidents at Yale, including allegations that a fraternity turned a woman away from a party because she was not white. Hide Caption 12 of 15 Photos: A history of free speech on campus A student walks by a bulletin board November 12, 2015, at Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut. More than 1,000 students, professors and staff at Yale gathered to discuss race and diversity at the Ivy League school amid a wave of demonstrations at US colleges over the treatment of minority students. Hide Caption 13 of 15 Photos: A history of free speech on campus Columbia University students gather to protest President Donald Trump's executive order on immigration January 30, 2017, in New York. The executive order banned travelers to the US from seven predominantly Muslim countries. Hide Caption 14 of 15 Photos: A history of free speech on campus Students protesting controversial Breitbart News writer Milo Yiannopoulos march in the street on February 1, 2017, in Berkeley, California. A scheduled speech by Yiannopoulos at the University of California-Berkeley was canceled after protesters and police engaged in violent skirmishes. Hide Caption 15 of 15

Shakira Martin, president of the UK's National Union of Students (NUS), said students valued free speech, but stressed that freedom must be balanced with creating safe spaces, particularly for minority groups.

The problem with free speech as we know it is that the playing field is uneven, she said, with some groups given the opportunity to shout louder than others.

"So many of the misunderstood and maligned practices that students have deployed to readdress that balance, such as safe space, are actually about extending free speech to those groups whose voices may not have been traditionally heard," she told CNN.

"If your intent is to peddle views which are widely regarded as unacceptable in the 21st century, you shouldn't be shocked if an invitation to speak is not extended."

People protesting controversial Breitbart writer Milo Yiannopoulos march in the street on February 1, 2017 at UC Berkeley, California.

Martin has plenty of support in her views. A ComRes survey of more than 1,000 UK students in 2016 found that 63% of respondents supported the NUS' no-platforming policy. Some 54% supported banning speakers when it threatened students' safe space.

Several no-platforming cases both in the UK and US have been met with op-eds, often penned by older authors, dismissing students as "snowflakes," too fragile to hear offensive views. Younger authors say older generations' protection of near-absolute free speech is outdated.

The debate leaves universities with a difficult balancing act. The UK's Department of Education is working on creating a clearer set of rules for universities to follow.

In May, Minister for Higher Education Sam Gyimah described the restrictions of free speech at universities as "chilling." His predecessor, Jo Johnson, said universities should be fined for banning speakers.

"Freedom of speech plays a crucial role in generating rigorous debate, advancing understanding and allowing students to challenge conventional wisdom and discuss controversial subjects," an education department spokesperson said in a statement to CNN.

While the department said it was working with higher education leaders on new guidance, it did not answer CNN's question on whether universities should have the right to ban speakers espousing factually or scientifically incorrect views, such as supporters of climate change denial, eugenics or the anti-vaccination movement, for example.

Free speech in the digital age

It may not be surprising that a generation that grew up with the internet and social media has different ideas on free speech.

Social media was once hailed as the savior of free speech, offering a platform for marginalized voices. That's still true, but with it has come more hate speech, more incitement to violence and fake news stories that in one case prompted a man to turn up to a pizza shop with a gun

JUST WATCHED How the 'Pizzagate' theory caught fire Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How the 'Pizzagate' theory caught fire 01:27

It has also seen the rise of trolling. That Russia has created entire troll farms with the express purpose to stifle debate online is one example of how social media has actually hampered free speech.

Laws around the world have not kept up with this major change in the way we communicate, according to Monica Horten, an expert on internet governance policy. At the heart of the problem is scale.

"What you've got now are millions of pieces of content going up online by individual people, and that immediately alters the scale of the problem, because the percentage of the content seen as problematic is going to be higher," Horten told CNN.

After years of backlash from their own users, social media platforms, including Facebook, Twitter and YouTube, are now regulating problematic content , such as fake news. But that poses its own set of problems, Horten said.

"The whole question of whether private actors should be able to make these kinds of decisions -- governments are asking private companies that run these platforms to make decisions about which content should be removed -- they are acting as censors and not always within the law."

She added that what was needed was a new regulatory framework and a watchdog to audit private companies transparently.

Kate O'Regan, director of the Bonavero Institute of Human Rights at the University of Oxford, agreed that the world was still grappling with how to legislate online content, but said she was concerned at the changing attitudes to free speech.

"I understand people who don't want to share a platform (with Steve Bannon) -- they have the right to make those decisions. But at the end of the day we have to debate the ideas and let that conversation take place," she said.

"I do think democracy by definition are places where we must allow deep-seated disagreements to be aired and they should be done in a civil manner."
