title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Bashar al-Assad Fast Facts|http://www.bbc.com/middle-east|http://www.bbc.com/2012/12/06/world/meast/bashar-al-assad---fast-facts/index.html||2012-12-06|Cnn Library||(CNN) Here's a look at the life of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.

Personal:

Birth date: September 11, 1965

Father: Hafez Assad, late Syrian President

Mother: Anisa Makhlouf al-Assad

Marriage: Asma (Akhras) al-Assad (2000-present) Asma (Akhras) al-Assad (2000-present)

Children: Karim, 2004; Zein, 2003; Hafez, 2001

Education: University of Damascus, Medicine, 1988; Ophthalmology residency, London, 1992-1994

Military service: Syrian Army, 1999, Colonel

Religion: Alawite Muslim

Timeline:

1994 - Syrian President Hafez Assad's oldest son and heir apparent, Basel, dies in a car accident. Second son Bashar, is called back from medical training in Britain and is groomed to take over his father's role as president.

1999 - Assad becomes a colonel in the Syrian army.

June 10, 2000 - President Hafez Assad dies of a heart attack after 29 years in office.

July 10, 2000 - Assad is elected unopposed as president of Syria.

May 29, 2007 - Runs unopposed for president and is elected to a second seven-year term.

October 14, 2008 - Assad signs a decree establishing diplomatic relations between Syria and Assad signs a decree establishing diplomatic relations between Syria and Lebanon

May 18, 2011 - The United States imposes sanctions against Assad and six other senior Syrian officials. The Treasury Department details the sanctions by saying, "As a result of this action, any property in the United States or in the possession or control of US persons in which the individuals listed in the Annex have an interest is blocked, and US persons are generally prohibited from engaging in transactions with them."

August 18, 2011 - Both the United States and the European Union call for Assad to step down. US authorities also impose new economic sanctions against Damascus, freezing Syrian government assets in the United States, barring Americans from making new investments in Syria and prohibiting any US transactions relating to Syrian petroleum products, among other things.

October 10, 2011 - A statement issued after a meeting attended by all 27 foreign ministers in the European Union condemns "in the strongest possible terms the ongoing brutal repression led by the Syrian regime," and declares that Syria's leader must resign "to allow a political transition to take place in Syria."

November 20, 2011 - In an interview with a British newspaper, Assad warns other countries that military intervention in Syria would have "very dire" repercussions and that his country "will not back down" in the face of international pressure and condemnation. In an interview with a British newspaper, Assad warns other countries that military intervention in Syria would have "very dire" repercussions and that his country "will not back down" in the face of international pressure and condemnation.

November 22, 2011 - Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan calls on Assad to resign and warns that he faces the same fate as Benito Mussolini, Nicolae Ceausescu, and Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan calls on Assad to resign and warns that he faces the same fate as Benito Mussolini, Nicolae Ceausescu, and Moammar Gadhafi , all leaders killed by their own people.

March 10-11, 2012 - Assad meets twice with Assad meets twice with then-UN envoy Kofi Annan to discuss the bloodshed in Syria.

March 23, 2012 - European Union sanctions are placed on European Union sanctions are placed on Assad's wife, Asma, his mother, sister and sister-in-law . Their EU assets are frozen and a travel ban prevents them from traveling to any EU country. London-born Asma al-Assad cannot be barred entry into Britain despite the EU ban.

July 18, 2012 - Syria's Deputy Defense Minister Assef Shawkat -- Assad's brother-in-law is killed, along with two other regime officials, in an explosion at a national security building in Damascus. Syria's Deputy Defense Minister Assef Shawkat -- Assad's brother-in-law is killed, along with two other regime officials, in an explosion at a national security building in Damascus.

April 17, 2013 - In an interview with Syria state TV network al Ekhbariya, Assad compares the support of rebels in Syria now to the backing of fighters in Afghanistan during their war with Soviet troops in the 1980s. He predicts that the rebel groups will one day turn against the United States and others. In an interview with Syria state TV network al Ekhbariya, Assad compares the support of rebels in Syria now to the backing of fighters in Afghanistan during their war with Soviet troops in the 1980s. He predicts that the rebel groups will one day turn against the United States and others.

June 3, 2014 - Is re-elected with 88.7% of the vote, according to reports on state run television. It's Syria's first election since the start of Is re-elected with 88.7% of the vote, according to reports on state run television. It's Syria's first election since the start of civil war in 2011.

December 1, 2015 - In an interview with Czech TV, Assad says that US-led airstrikes against ISIS have not slowed the terrorist organization, and that ISIS has only recently begun to shrink due to Russia's direct involvement.
