title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Hassan Nasrallah Fast Facts|http://www.bbc.com/middle-east|http://www.bbc.com/2013/01/01/world/meast/hassan-nasrallah---fast-facts/index.html||2013-01-01|Cnn Library||(CNN) Here's a look at the life of Hassan Nasrallah, secretary-general of Hezbollah, a Lebanese Shiite Muslim militant group.

Personal:

Birth date: August 31, 1960

Father: Abd al-Karim, who worked as a grocer

Marriage: Fatima Yassin

Children: Muhammad Hadi (died in 1997); Muhammad Jawad; Zeinab; Muhammad Ali and Muhammad Mahdi

Education: Islamic seminaries in Islamic seminaries in Iran and Iraq

Religion: Shiite Shiite Muslim

Other Facts:

Oldest of nine children.

Wears a black turban to signify that he is a descendant of the Prophet Muhammad.

Timeline :

1975 - After civil war breaks out in Lebanon, the After civil war breaks out in Lebanon, the Nasrallah family leaves Beirut and moves to a village near Tyre.

1976 - Nasrallah moves to Najaf, Iraq, to attend a Shiite seminary.

1978 - Is expelled from Iraq during a time of Shiite repression ( Is expelled from Iraq during a time of Shiite repression ( President Saddam Hussein was a Sunni) and returns to Lebanon along with his mentor, Abbas Musawi. Musawi establishes a religious school in Baalbeck, where Nasrallah teaches and studies.

1978-1982 - Member of the Shiite Amal movement during Lebanon's civil war.

1982 - Organizes a group to fight against the Israeli occupation of Lebanon. This group eventually evolves into Hezbollah.

1987-1989 - Studies at a seminary in Qom, Iran.

1989 - Represents Hezbollah in Tehran.

1991 - Musawi becomes the secretary-general of Hezbollah. Nasrallah returns to Lebanon.

February 1992 - Replaces Musawi as secretary-general of Hezbollah after Musawi is killed by an Israeli helicopter strike.

1997 - Nasrallah's son, Muhammad Hadi, is killed in a clash with Israeli forces.

July 12, 2006 - Hezbollah crosses the border into Hezbollah crosses the border into Israel and captures two soldiers during a raid; a 34-day conflict ensues.

September 22, 2006 - Nasrallah makes his first public appearance since the beginning of the conflict in July, addressing hundreds of thousands of people at a rally in Beirut.

November 30, 2006 - In a speech broadcast on TV, Nasrallah calls for open-ended peaceful protests in the hopes of Lebanese Prime Minister Fouad Siniora's resignation and the creation of a national unity government. In a speech broadcast on TV, Nasrallah calls for open-ended peaceful protests in the hopes of Lebanese Prime Minister Fouad Siniora's resignation and the creation of a national unity government. The next day, security sources estimate that at least 200,000 protesters gather in the streets of Beirut, Lebanon.

May 2008 - Declares the government's move to shut down Hezbollah's communications network " Declares the government's move to shut down Hezbollah's communications network " a declaration of open war ." Armed conflict breaks out between Hezbollah fighters and pro-government militias.

May 21, 2008 - After five days of talks, representatives from the Hezbollah-led opposition and Lebanon's Western-backed government After five days of talks, representatives from the Hezbollah-led opposition and Lebanon's Western-backed government reach an agreement in Doha, Qatar , ending the 18-month political crisis.

December 2017 - Joins calls for a Palestinian uprising following the United States' recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.
