title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
The most radical part of Geoffrey Owens' day job|http://www.bbc.com/opinions|http://www.bbc.com/2018/09/06/opinions/geoffrey-owens-actor-jobs-davis/index.html|The Haves and the Have Nots|2018-09-06|Raval Davis||RaVal Davis is an entertainment writer, actress and advocate for body positivity. She is also the host of BET's "Don't Touch My Hair" talk show, a topical series that addresses the concerns of black women. Follow her on Instagram and Twitter @RaValDavis The opinions expressed in this commentary are her own. View more opinion articles on CNN.

(CNN) Geoffrey Owens isn't quite a household name, but he has been trending this week for something rather ordinary: a hard day's work.

Ironically, it was this Labor Day weekend when a story, job-shaming Owens -- best known for his role as son-in-law Elvin on "The Cosby Show"—went viral. Twenty-six years after "The Cosby Show," the actor made headlines after a New Jersey shopper took photos of Owens in a Trader Joe's uniform bagging groceries at the checkout line and Fox News picked up the story, which initially was reported by the Daily Mail.

RaVal Davis

That's when it got crazy -- the social media shaming, the backlash, the criticism, then the criticism of the criticism, the support of his peers and a much larger conversation around classism and how we value and devalue labor and laborers.

As a woman who, after over a decade, left a corporate career feeling completely unfulfilled, I can tell you first hand a "good job" has little to do with how much you make. The radical part of Owens' story, however, is that people think it's at all shocking for an actor to be working odd jobs between gigs and that it in any way makes him lesser. In March of 2014, the National Endowment for the Arts released a study noting that at least 271,000 artists held second jobs.

I'm an up-and-coming actress, and I've done temp work. I've worked as a front desk attendant at a spa, a journalist, a video producer and a digital marketing strategist since leaving my corporate career to become an actor and host. Trying to do what you love and still pay the rent isn't easy. I'll also admit that going from an executive at a major nationally-traded company to waking up in the early hours of the morning to open a gym has definitely caused me to doubt my self worth on more than one occasion. Here I am, the same person, but I've also witnessed former associates treat me differently after my career change.
