title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
How Princess Eugenie's Wedding Dress Compares to Meghan Markle, Kate Middleton, and Princess Diana's Gowns|http://www.elle.com/fashion|http://www.elle.com/fashion/a23726409/princess-eugenie-meghan-markle-kate-middleton-princess-diana-royal-wedding-dresses-compared/||2018-10-12|Alyssa Bailey||Princess Eugenie has just debuted her royal wedding dress, making her own statement amidst a legacy of iconic royal bridal gowns. Eugenie opted for a Peter Pilotto v-neck dress with an open back.

Shutterstock Tim Rooke/REX/Shutterstock

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

Getty Images YUI MOK

In the fabric, designers Peter Pilotto and Christopher De Vos wove in a couple symbols that mean a lot to Eugenie and Brooksbank, the Palace detailed. There's the Thistle for Scotland, "acknowledging the couple's fondness for Balmoral, a Shamrock for Ireland as a nod to the Bride's Ferguson family, the York Rose and ivy representing the couple's home," the Palace wrote. They have been reinterpreted "in a garland of rope like motifs, woven into a jacquard of silk, cotton and viscose blend." It all came together with an elegant, long train in the back. Unlike other royal brides, Eugenie chose not to wear a veil.



Getty Images VICTORIA JONES

Her dress stands out against Meghan Markle, Kate Middleton, and Princess Diana's before her. Here, theirs for comparison.

Getty Images

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

Meghan went for a bateau-necked Givenchy gown this spring. She had long sleeves and opted for a dress without lace:

Getty Images WPA Pool

Kate wore an Alexander McQueen gown for her April 2011 wedding to Prince William. It featured lace and was tailored exactly to her figure.

Getty Images CARL DE SOUZA

Princess Diana, meanwhile, wore an Alexander McQueen gown with lace, sequins, and pearls embroidered.

Getty Images PA Images

In terms of dress fit, neither a looser dress nor tighter dress are against protocol, by the way, Myka Meier, Beaumont Etiquette's founder/director and a British-American trained by a former member of the Queen's household, told ELLE.com previously. “At the end of the day it was simply a matter of preference," Meier said of Meghan and all royal brides. "So she would not have been told exactly about the tailoring. If anything usually people would expect that protocol would say ‘it shouldn’t be tight.’ With the Duchess of Cambridge it was perfectly tailored to her figure. I think it’s just a matter of preference there and something that she chose to do between her and her designer really.”
