title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
How to Prepare for a World Where Abortion Is Illegal|http://www.elle.com|http://www.elle.com/culture/career-politics/a23889097/how-to-prepare-for-a-world-where-abortion-is-illegal/||2018-10-18|Sady Doyle||The confirmation of Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court seems to have ushered in a kind of nuclear winter for the reproductive rights movement. Kavanaugh was selected from a list of “pro-life” justices committed to overturning Roe; thanks to him, abortion access will likely be curtailed even further in all 50 states.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

We don’t yet know when or how Roe will fall. Women and trans people have been losing the right to abortion for decades — through the defunding and closure of abortion clinics, through restrictions imposed by the states, or through the Hyde Amendment, a federal ban on abortion funding which effectively prevents low-income women from getting care. Some advocates expect the loss to continue this way, with states being allowed to pass increasingly draconian bans. Others see a grimmer endgame in sight.

“Anti-choicers don’t march under signs saying ‘federalism now.’ They’re not marching for states’ rights,” says Ilyse Hogue, President of NARAL Pro-Choice America. “They march under signs that say ‘end abortion.’ That’s the end game for them, is a federal ban.”

This may leave a lot of women despairing, frightened, and casting about for something or anything at all to do. But experienced abortion advocates are already making plans for next steps — and, even in the Swamp of Eternal Sadness that is 2018, there is no shortage of things you can do to protect and defend abortion access now.

Make a Disaster Plan

Getty Images Mark Reinstein

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

At first, the end of Roe will likely look different, depending on who you are and where you live: a middle-class college student in New York will face a very different set of realities than a blue-collar working mom in Mississippi. The first step, advocates say, is to have a realistic assessment of the resources available in your state, and a plan for taking care of yourself if the worst happens.

“I&#39;m a huge fan of disaster plans — if there was a zombie apocalypse you&#39;d totally want me on your team,” says Robin Marty, author of the forthcoming book A Handbook for Post-Roe America. “I think you should always approach things like the oxygen masks on airplanes: you first, then help the people around you.”

This means a lot of healthcare planning: “Go evaluate your current healthcare needs, check into how supportive your doctor is about your reproductive choices, grab a pack or two (but not a bunch) of emergency contraception, maybe put away some money in case you or someone you know might need an abortion down the road,” Marty counsels. “Then research and plug into the existing network of advocacy already in place.”

Connect to Experts

Getty Images Andrew Lichtenstein

Getting politically involved and connecting to like-minded people is one of the most important ways to combat paralysis or despair. Nearly every woman I spoke to said that local abortion funds, which provide counseling, funding and services to low-income women in need of abortion, should be the first point of contact for a new activist.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

“Most people, even if they feel hopeless, should know that there’s probably an abortion fund in their state that they can reach out to and get involved,” says Anisha Gandhi of the New York Abortion Access Fund. “[You] can go to abortionfunds.org and identify what funds exist in your state, and you can reach out and find out if they have volunteer opportunities. You can register to be an individual member and anchor yourself to the abortion funds in your state.”

Those “volunteer opportunities” are not inconsequential — NYAAF, for example, is an all-volunteer fund. Gandhi also encourages people to get involved at the point of contact, by supporting and volunteering for local abortion providers, which are in need of everything from money to political canvassers to calm volunteers willing to help patients navigate their way through the crowds of protesters and into the clinics. There is always something to do, and doing even a little bit helps secure the infrastructure your community needs.

Create Local Hope

Getty Images Bob Riha Jr

With things looking grim on the federal level, the best option is to get hyper-involved locally. This is certainly the case for political advocacy. Hogue pointed to NARAL’s recent campaign in Massachusetts, which successfully repealed pre-Roe laws criminalizing abortion. Lots of states have those antiquated laws still on the books, she says, and they may become scarily relevant again if and when Roe falls.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

Nor does local advocacy mean being stuck on defense. “Something for me in the face of hopelessness that is heartening is that there are safety protections at the state and local level that even cities can pick up, providing a safety net for people,” Gandhi says.

She points to New York’s Reproductive Health Act, which would guarantee all New Yorkers a level of abortion access consistent with Roe v. Wade. Passing these laws in blue states may provide safe islands for pregnant people — and abortion funds would hopefully be able to ferry those people across state borders and pay for shelter and childcare.

Of course, states could theoretically pass laws banning the transport of a fetus across state lines. But even then, working with city governments can have surprisingly good results.

“What we’re going to have to look at more in red states is what kind of municipal action is necessary,” Hogue tells me. “If you look at [a red state like] Tennessee, 85% of the population lives in the 5 largest cities — under pro-choice mayors.”

There is more than one way to build an island, after all.

Think Outside the Law

Getty Images Mark Reinstein

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

Granted, this may not allay the cold fear of the worst-case scenario: A federal ban on abortion, criminal penalties or even death sentences for doctors and patients, and a return to the days of women dying in back-alley procedures.

That, too, is scarily close to our present-day reality; self-induced abortions are already on the rise. In Louisiana, where there are only three abortion clinics, some 11% of women in prenatal care said they had attempted to self-induce. Women are also already being jailed for these attempts, as in the cases of Purvi Patel, Michelle Roberts, or Anna Yocca, who spent over a year in jail after trying, and failing, to abort her pregnancy with a coat hanger.

“It’s sickening,” says Laura Kaplan. “It’s bleak and sickening because I don’t want women to suffer. I mean, I’m outraged.”

Kaplan is the author of The Story of Jane, a first-person history of the Abortion Counseling Service of the Chicago Women’s Liberation Union — the underground abortion service which trained laypeople to provide safe surgical abortions, now known as the Jane Collective. (“We never, never, never referred to ourselves that way,” Kaplan stresses. “Jane” was a code name they used with patients, but internally, the women called themselves “the Service.”) When I told Kaplan I’d heard more than one younger activist cite the ACS as a model for the post-Roe future, she told me that those younger activists are in a much better position than she was — especially with the “abortion pill” (actually a set of two drugs, mifepristone and misoprostol) making safe abortion as easy as smuggling pills into someone’s mailbox.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

The relative safety of those abortion drugs, and the rise of technology, has empowered several safe abortion networks, like the Dutch group Women on Waves, which uses drones to send abortion pills into countries with unjust laws. The United States, depressing as this sentence is to type, may soon qualify for the same humanitarian aid. Robin Marty also mentioned homebaked groups that have arisen online.

We have a legacy of disobedience to call on until our country muddles its way toward justice once again.

“A website very recently popped up that claims to counsel and direct a person wishing to manage their abortion at home to an online counselor and then to someone who will fill a prescription for an abortion inducing drug and send it to them in the mail,” Marty told me. “It isn&#39;t any different essentially than the study happening in a few states testing out abortion pills by mail, but because this goes to any state it&#39;s potentially illegal. Will it get shut down? Probably. Will another pop up? Probably.”

Marty stressed that even these services won’t work as long as women are jailed for suspected abortions. “If a person could only do one thing, the absolute most important action would be to advocate for a bill that pushes lawmakers to no longer investigate bad birth outcomes such as miscarriages that look ‘suspicious’ and could be possible self-managed abortions,” she says.

But, even if things get as dark as they can get, women and trans people will find a way to look out for each other. We did in the past, as the story of Jane demonstrates; we will have to do so again. It’s more than just the right thing to do, it is key to winning our rights back.

“The courts, for the most part, don’t lead, they follow,” Kaplan says. “I don’t know what will happen, but a society based on the rule of law can’t continue if the laws are being blatantly violated and publicly violated. I’m not saying what anybody should do. That’s not my place. I’m just a person with a set of experiences.”

That “set of experiences” includes helping Roe to be passed the first time around. That it would fall again, and within living memory, is a tragedy. But we have a legacy of disobedience to call on until our country muddles its way toward justice once again.
