title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
John Hardy's New Collaboration With Adwoa Aboah Is Truly Enchanting|http://www.elle.com/fashion|http://www.elle.com/fashion/shopping/a23676959/john-hardys-new-collaboration-with-adwoa-aboah-is-truly-enchanting/||2018-10-09|Nerisha Penrose||When it comes to jewelry, there are two type of people in this world: the minimalist who takes pride in owning only a few dainty, subtle pieces, and the maximalist, who you can find with stacks of necklaces draped around their neck, and elaborate pieces adorning their hands and ears. For John Hardy's new collaboration with fashion's golden child, Adwoa Aboah, the duo brings these two worlds together with a limited-edition collection that echoes Adwoa's eclectic personal style while staying true to Hardy's timeless aesthetic.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

Inspired by "earth's raw power" and nature, Adwoa produced a reworked version of Hardy's signature Classic Chain necklace and earrings in silver and gold with an array of enchanting gemstones to choose from. Each stone was hand selected for its "affirming properties" like the pyrite, black tourmaline and hematite, which offer grounding and strength; the pink tourmaline, rose quartz and spinel project color, energy and light.

You can add your own personalized touch by stacking the Classic Chain Pinky Signet Ring in 18K Gold or Classic Chain Multi Row Bracelet. Other standouts in the collection include the Classic Chain Single Earring and the Triple Row Bracelet in Gold.

Classic Chain Body Chain Necklace with Black Sapphire, $24,000 Luis Ruiz

Classic Chain Multi Row Necklace with Milky Rubelite, Pyrite, $7,900 Luis Ruiz

“Adwoa is the definition of a modern-day legend. John Hardy felt a natural gravitation to her authenticity, passion, fearlessness,” says Robert Hanson, CEO of John Hardy. “Our shared philosophy of using jewelry as a tool for self-expression and self-empowerment allowed for an organic continuation of our relationship. Her artistic disposition is a constant source of inspiration to the brand and we were thrilled to further explore our creative partnership through this collaboration as championing female artisans, in all forms, is core to our brand.”

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

Luis Ruiz

For Aboah, her inaugural collection with John Hardy was all about self-expression. "Creating pieces that spoke to my authenticity and that could be personalized in a variety of ways was very important to me. Jewelry has transformative power. It communicates your mood, story and expression,” adds Aboah. “Each piece was designed to stand out on its own yet complement the others to show depth and dimension."

The full collection is available now at johnhardy.com. Shop some of the pieces from the collection below.

Classic Chain Pinky Signet Ring with Pink Tourmaline johnhardy.com $1,200.00 Shop Now

Client Care Already A Customer? johnhardy.com $4,900.00 Shop Now
