title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Justin Bieber Got Asked About Selena Gomez's Hospitalization While Out With Hailey Baldwin|http://www.elle.com/culture|http://www.elle.com/culture/a23759124/justin-bieber-selena-gomez-remorse-report/||2018-10-13|Ariana Yaptangco||As Selena Gomez continues to get better following her hospitalization earlier this week, the constant talk surrounding Justin Bieber and Hailey Baldwin rages on. The couple has been linked to Selena's "ongoing emotional issues" but despite push from the press and paparazzi, Bieber and Baldwin are sincerely not the cause of Gomez's mental health treatment.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

This, of course, did not deter paparazzi from asking about Selena during Justin's outing with Hailey in LA yesterday. "Justin! Have you spoken to Selena?" yelled a photographer. The singer had no comment and kept his head down as he led Hailey into a restaurant.

Justin has yet to publicly comment about Selena's health scare, but sources are saying that the singer is extremely affected. According to E!, "He feels sad and remorse for Selena and knows how it is to go through a difficult time. Justin also feels guilty. He wants to help everyone. He truly wants Selena to be happy, and it's upsetting to know she's battling health issues."

Being a newlywed doesn't help either. Since officially marrying Baldwin, Bieber has had a tough time adjusting. "It has been overwhelming for him since they tied the knot and he's not good at handling his emotions," the source adds. "He's been very emotional, but he always means well and is coming from a good place."

Another source for Bieber's emotions are the expectations for new music. According to People, the pop star is having a creative block. "Justin is feeling a lot of pressure right now and it makes him unhappy,” a source revealed. “People have expectations that he will produce new music, but he hasn’t been feeling inspired. He wants to take his time and not feel rushed about work. He knows with new music, he will also be expected to tour and he absolutely doesn’t want to."
