title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Melania Trump Says Her Controversial Jacket Was for 'Left-Wing Critics'|http://www.elle.com|http://www.elle.com/culture/a23759799/melania-trump-jacket-controversy-abc-interview/||2018-10-13|Ariana Yaptangco||Melania Trump's full interview with ABC is here and it's essentially more of the same. The rare sit-down has been teased throughout the week and was conducted earlier this month during Trump's visit to Africa, where she tackled topics ranging from #MeToo to the state of her marriage with Donald Trump.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below

An interesting tidbit came from comments about her famous, "I REALLY DON'T CARE, DO U?" jacket, which the First Lady wore while visiting an immigrant detention facility in June. The jacket prompted an uproar, with many deeming the fashion choice insensitive during the height of family separation at the border. At the time, the First Lady's spokesperson Stephanie Grisham said "It's a jacket. There was no hidden message. After today's important visit to Texas, I hope this isn't what the media is going to choose to focus on."

But Trump is now telling a different story. According to CNN, Melania told ABC that the jacket was aimed at her "left-wing critics." "It was kind of a message, yes. I would prefer that they focus on what I do and my initiatives than what I wear," she told Tom Llamas."You know I often asking myself, I would not wear that if I would have so much media coverage. It's obvious I didn't wear the jacket for the children. I want to show them that I don't care. You could criticize whatever you want to say, but it will not stop me to do what I feel is right."



Trump continued to baffle when she wore the jacket a second time, upon her return from the detention center. When asked why, Melania confirmed she was trolling. "I put it back on because I see how the media got obsessed by it," she said.

Trump would go on to wear another controversial outfit during her visit to Africa—a white pith helmet with ties to colonialism.


