title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Apply now to be a TED2019 Fellow|http://blog.ted.com|https://blog.ted.com/apply-now-to-be-a-ted2019-fellow/|TED2019,TED Fellow,TED Fellows|2018-06-26|Ted Staff,Rebekah Barnett,Chelsea Catlett,Abhimanyu Das,Rajpreet Heir,Lauren Mcalpine,Elian Silverman||Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window)

The TED Fellows program is turning ten years old next year, and we are looking for our most ambitious class yet. We select people from every discipline and every country to be Fellows, and we give them support to scale their dreams and scale their impact.

Apply to be a TED Fellow by August 26.

Who are TED Fellows? Fellows are individuals with original work, a record of achievement in their field and exceptional potential. They are also courageous, collaborative people dedicated to improving life where they work.

How do we help you dream bigger? The Fellows program is robust, long-term and, we think, unlike any other Fellowship out there. From our open application process to our rigorous support systems, we have designed a program that maximizes innovation and collaboration.

Fellows get career coaching and speaker training as well as mentorship and public relations guidance. Fellows also give a talk at a TED Conference, a huge opportunity to share their work with a wide, new audience. And perhaps most important, Fellows join the community of 450+ other Fellows who inspire one another and collaborate on new projects.

What have Fellows done after joining the program? In our nearly 10-year history, the Fellows program has sparked remarkable cultural change and reached millions of people. With the support of TED, Fellows have conserved large swaths of our planet, protecting many species in the process. They’ve made headway in understanding complex diseases like Parkinson’s, cancer and malaria. They’ve created art that shines a light on injustice and made music that celebrates our history. They’ve made huge strides in robotics and 4-D printing and launched new startups. They’ve passed laws and have gone on to win Oscars, Grammys and MacArthur “genius” grants. And in the process, Fellows have improved conditions on our planet for countless communities and inspired others to pursue their own unconventional projects.

Our application is straightforward. It’s open to everyone (no one is appointed a Fellow; everyone has to apply), and we encourage you to apply even if you’re not sure you’re qualified. We have a way of picking winners before they know it.

The online application can take as little as 20 minutes. It asks for general biographical information, short essays on your work and three references. We don’t have an upper age limit, but you must be 18 or older to apply. If you’re selected, you will be part of our 10-year anniversary class, and you will need to reserve April 13 through April 20, 2019, for TED2019 and our own very special pre-conference.

So dream bigger. Apply to be a TED Fellow today.

—

For more information on the TED Fellows:

Visit: ted.com/fellows

Follow: @TEDFellow

Like: facebook.com/TEDFellow

Read: fellowsblog.ted.com
