title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Fall TV preview: 21 new and returning shows|http://www.cnn.com/entertainment|http://www.cnn.com/2018/09/03/entertainment/gallery/fall-tv-preview-2018/index.html||2018-09-03|Sandra Gonzalez,Brian Lowry||Photos: Fall TV preview: 21 new and returning shows "You" (Sept. 9 on Lifetime) – Penn Badgley stars in this drama about a book store manager who develops a twisted infatuation with an aspiring writer. It's "Dexter" meets that Police song about stalking.

Hide Caption 1 of 20

Photos: Fall TV preview: 21 new and returning shows "Kidding" (Sept. 9 on Showtime) – Jim Carrey returns to TV -- and reunites with "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" director Michel Gondry -- as the Mr. Rogers-like host of a children's show. He's dealing with grief and marital separation off-screen, while trying to hold it together on. Frank Langella and Catherine Keener co-star. Hide Caption 2 of 20

Photos: Fall TV preview: 21 new and returning shows "American Horror Story: Apocalypse" (Sept. 12 on FX) – How much do you want to bet that the rejected title for this "Murder House" and "Coven" crossover was "AHS: A Current Affair"? Hide Caption 3 of 20

Photos: Fall TV preview: 21 new and returning shows "Sorry For Your Loss" (Sept. 18, Facebook Watch) – In this Facebook series, Elizabeth Olsen plays a young widow navigating her new life and exploring aspects of her husband's that she never knew about. So, not a comedy. Not even a little. Hide Caption 4 of 20

Photos: Fall TV preview: 21 new and returning shows "The Hunt for the Trump Tapes with Tom Arnold" (Sept. 18 on Viceland) – Tom Arnold takes on the role of investigator in this semi-comedic, semi-real series, in which he commits himself to finding damaging video or audiotapes that will hasten the end of the Trump presidency. Hide Caption 5 of 20

Photos: Fall TV preview: 21 new and returning shows "Maniac" (Sept. 21 on Netflix) – I've watched the trailer 50 times and still can't think of a coherent way to describe this series about a drug trial gone bonkers. So let's just say, in the words of Emma Stone's character, it's about "multi-reality, brain-magic sh—." Hide Caption 6 of 20

Photos: Fall TV preview: 21 new and returning shows "9-1-1" Season 2 (Sept. 23 on Fox) – In the season premiere, the first responders in one of the most enjoyably ridiculous hours of TV any network has to offer contend with a massive earthquake that hits Los Angeles Hide Caption 7 of 20

Photos: Fall TV preview: 21 new and returning shows "Big Bang Theory" final season (Sept. 24 on CBS) – The 12th season will be the last for CBS' highest-rated comedy, after a failed attempt to get the cast to commit to one more year. That means the producers have a full season to build toward a finale that will tie up loose ends, if not string theory. Hide Caption 8 of 20

Photos: Fall TV preview: 21 new and returning shows "This is Us" Season 3 (Sept. 25 on NBC) – The Pearsons are back and so is your reason to buy your Kleenex in bulk at Cosco. Hide Caption 9 of 20

Photos: Fall TV preview: 21 new and returning shows "Lethal Weapon" Season 3 premiere (Sept. 25 on Fox) – Off-screen tumult will lead to some changes in this series spinoff of the movie franchise, with Clayne Crawford having been fired from the show after several on-set disputes, and Seann William Scott replacing him in a new role opposite Damon Wayans. All told, it should be a pretty good test of just how much ammunition is left in the title. Hide Caption 10 of 20

Photos: Fall TV preview: 21 new and returning shows "Murphy Brown" (Sept. 27 on CBS) – Candice Bergen is back as sharp-tongued, steel-nerved broadcaster Murphy Brown to take on "fake news," defend the free press and more in this reboot of the ground-breaking comedy. For those who struggle to find one good thing about the current political climate, here it is. Hide Caption 11 of 20

Photos: Fall TV preview: 21 new and returning shows "God Friended Me" (Sept. 30 on CBS) – CBS had great success with "Touched by an Angel," and returns to similar territory with this new comedy-drama, in which Miles (Brandon Micheal Hall), the atheist son of a preacher (Joe Morton), appears to receive a "friend" request from God, putting the still-skeptical fellow on a path to using those cryptic messages to try and help others. Hide Caption 12 of 20

Photos: Fall TV preview: 21 new and returning shows "The Walking Dead" (Oct. 7 on AMC) – Ratings have dropped for the hit zombie series, which has undergone cast turnover throughout its run but may face its biggest loss yet with the news that the ninth season will be the final one for star Andrew Lincoln, who plays Rick. Still, the suspense over how he exits could breathe some life back into "Dead," at least temporarily.

Hide Caption 13 of 20

Photos: Fall TV preview: 21 new and returning shows "The Romanoffs" (Oct. 12 on Amazon) – In true Matt Weiner fashion, the details about this anthology series are scarce, but here's what we do know: it's packed with stars, tells eight separate stories about people who believe themselves to be descendants of the Russian royal family, is set in seven countries around the globe, and has fabulously vague episode descriptions. A sample, describing the first episode, titled "The Violet Hour": "Set in Paris, an ancestral home holds the key to a family's future." Hide Caption 14 of 20

Photos: Fall TV preview: 21 new and returning shows "Titans" (Oct. 12 on DC Universe subscription service) – This gritty take on DC's Teen Titans franchise is the first original offering from the company's new subscription service, but time will tell if the superhero show will be worth the $7.99 per month price tag of the service. Hide Caption 15 of 20

Photos: Fall TV preview: 21 new and returning shows "Charmed" (Oct. 14 on The CW) – One of this season's several reboots or revivals (along with shows like "Magnum P.I." and "Murphy Brown"), the story about three sister witches -- discovering their new-found, complementary powers -- will have a new look and a Hispanic cast. Melonie Diaz, Sarah Jeffery and Madeleine Mantock star, with the creative reins passing to "Jane the Virgin" producer Jennie Snyder Urman. (That latter show, incidentally, will also be among the anticipated series finales of 2019.)

Hide Caption 16 of 20

Photos: Fall TV preview: 21 new and returning shows "The Conners" and "The Kids Are Alright" (Oct. 16 on ABC) – Roseanne Barr is gone, but her TV family is coming back without her -- the big question being how funny the show will be, given the loss of its one-time namesake. Still, the renewal fills a gap for ABC, and perhaps as significantly promises to provide a ratings boost to one of the best-regarded new comedies of the fall, "The Kids Are Alright" (pictured). The semi-autobiographical look by producer Tim Doyle at growing up in the 1970s stars Michael Cudlitz and Mary McCormack as the parents of a sprawling brood. Hide Caption 17 of 20

Photos: Fall TV preview: 21 new and returning shows "Chilling Adventures of Sabrina" (Oct. 26 on Netflix) – This coming-of-age story tells the beginnings of Sabrina the Teenage Witch, played by "Mad Men" alum Kiernan Shipka. The dark series draws influence from "Rosemary's Baby" and "The Exorcist," and is far from the Melissa Joan Hart-born Sabrina you remember from the late 90's. Hide Caption 18 of 20

Photos: Fall TV preview: 21 new and returning shows "House of Cards" final season (Nov. 2 on Netflix) – Claire Underwood — and "House of Cards" as a whole — searches for a clean slate in the sixth and final season of Netflix's political drama, its first since star Kevin Spacey was fired from the series amid allegations of sexual misconduct. If star Robin Wright's performance in the previous five seasons is any indication, it won't be hard to hail this chief. Hide Caption 19 of 20
