title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Hollywood tension over art and commerce highlighted by 'Hal'|http://www.cnn.com/entertainment|http://www.cnn.com/2018/09/06/entertainment/hal-ashby-documentary/index.html||2018-09-06|Brian Lowry||(CNN) Hal Ashby directed some of the most memorable films of the 1970s, including "Being There" and the cult classic "Harold and Maude." Yet his career also highlighted Hollywood's age-old tension between art and commerce -- a tug of war exacerbated today as the major studios increasingly rely on sequels and special-effects-driven blockbusters.

"Hal," a documentary about Ashby directed by Amy Scott, basically wonders why the director isn't a bigger name given the cinematic legacy he left behind. In addition to "Being There" -- a 1979 movie about politics, media and mythmaking, starring Peter Sellers, which has been hailed for its prescience -- he directed the anti-Vietnam war drama "Coming Home," "The Last Detail" and "Shampoo."

Ashby's career, however, foundered after that run of classics, a situation that friends attribute in part to the fact that he had "problems with authority." That included frequent clashes with studio executives, as Ashby hit a fallow period before dying of pancreatic cancer 30 years ago, at the age of 59.

What comes through in "Hal" is that the kind of movies Ashby excelled at making were a challenge to get made even then, and face more formidable hurdles -- certainly in terms of earning a wide theatrical release -- given the priorities today of the major studios, where character-driven films have taken a back seat to the pursuit of global hits.

Norman Jewison, who directed "In the Heat of the Night" (which Ashby edited before embarking on his own directing career), recalls telling his protégé, "The studio is not your friend. The studio is the enemy of the artist. Because the studio is only interested in money." Beyond those who worked with Ashby, contemporary filmmakers who weigh in on his career include Judd Apatow, Lisa Cholodenko, Alexander Payne and David O. Russell.

Read More
