title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
The disturbing message for students in Urban Meyer's suspension|http://www.cnn.com/opinions|http://www.cnn.com/2018/09/04/opinions/urban-meyer-slap-on-wrist-roberts/index.html||2018-09-04|Daron K. Roberts||Daron K. Roberts is the founding director of the Center for Sports Leadership and Innovation at The University of Texas at Austin. He is also a former NFL and college football assistant coach. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion articles on CNN.

(CNN) Welcome back to the world of college football. Before the season's opening kickoff, the Ohio State University Buckeyes elected to punt on a crucial display of integrity.

Daron K. Roberts

The university's football coach, Urban Meyer, has been suspended without pay for failing to take appropriate action when allegations of spousal abuse were made against his former assistant coach, Zach Smith. With a perfunctory suspension for head coach Meyer, Ohio State sent a clear message to the college football world: Nothing will stand in the way of our quest to win another national championship. With a slap on the wrist -- a three-game suspension for Meyer -- and a pathetic press conference, Ohio State may have won its season opener, but enters the season as 0-2 in the court of public opinion.

Meyer's maxim that "leaders create culture" is absolutely right. Unfortunately, the culture of plausible deniability to protect coaches — and the heightened scrutiny to police athletes — continues to shield bad behavior and produce poor results. This situation is the most recent example.

JUST WATCHED Reporter: Meyer won't be coaching in 2018 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Reporter: Meyer won't be coaching in 2018 01:25

The facts surrounding this sordid drama of failed leadership are convoluted at best, but a report released by Ohio State from an independent investigation seems to have made a few things clear. Smith worked for Meyer as an assistant at the University of Florida from 2005 to 2009. In 2009, Smith was arrested for aggravated battery. The alleged victim was his pregnant wife, Courtney Smith. She declined to press charges and Zach Smith disputes that any violence occurred.

Meyer was aware of the 2009 arrest. Prior knowledge of this incident alone should have prompted him to not hire Smith at Ohio State. To preach "respect for women" and keep an alleged domestic abuser on your staff at the same time is hypocritical at best.
