title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
3 Gen Z approved first cars to test drive today|http://www.glamour.co.za|https://www.glamour.co.za/2018/06/gen-z-cars/|Cars,GLAMxBULGARI,Bulgari x GLAMOUR,Bulgari Omnia Pink Sapphire|2018-06-18|June||Back in the day, as soon as you turned 18 you had already booked your drivers license, and was ready to take on the roads. Today, with transportation services like Uber and Taxify, getting your drivers license is no longer at the top of any Gen Z girl’s priority list.

Some surveys have even suggested that the generation rates their smartphones higher in importance than a car. But when they are shopping for new cars, Gen Z drivers are especially picky. They not only want to get the most value for their money, but they also want cars that bring a balanced mix of practicality, technology, and driving enjoyment.

Here are 3 great vehicles perfect for Generation Z drivers.

The 2018 Ford Fiesta

The all-new Ford Fiesta is set to turn heads. Not only is it one attractive car, but it’s brand new shape, interior, and technology features are just as impressive. This car is made for someone who loves to drive but also wants to look good while doing it. This car delivers the sharpest, sportiest, and most balanced performance yet. From the keyless entry to the HD touchscreen, and the addition of two brand new colourways, we’re certain you’ll be seeing this car on a highway near you.

New Polo

If German engineering is your thing, you can’t go wrong with the sporty little number. The Polo is one of the most popular cars VW has ever made. If you want a good-looking car, with the latest tech features and lots of space, the new VW Polo is the one for you.

Suzuki Swift

Combine cute looks, affordability, an impressive drive with low fuel consumption, and you get the all-new Suzuki Swift. The Swift has been a popular hatchback for the Suzuki brand. It has been estimated that the car is currently present in 6 million homes, around the globe. The Swift is the perfect proposition for buyers looking for reliable daily wheels. Equipped with a 7-inch touch screen which includes navigation, Bluetooth, Apple CarPlay, and Android Auto functionality, we’re predicting that this bomb vehicle is set to fly off Suzuki’s showroom floors, in no time.

Now that you’ve found the perfect car, click here to discover Bulgari’s new fragrance, which was specially designed with Gen Z-ers in mind.

Want to stand a chance to win a once in a lifetime experience with GLAMOUR and Bulgari? Click here!
