title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
5 Steps to perfect your girls night out|http://www.glamour.co.za|https://www.glamour.co.za/2018/09/5-steps-to-perfect-your-girls-night-out/|gmg,girl's night,Brooklyn Mall,Mall|2018-09-05|September||There are two major keys to having an unforgettable girls night: looking good and feeling good. At Brooklyn Mall, you can be sure that both of them will be taken care of- in style. We give you the low-down on what to do and where to go to this shopping haven so that you wow your besties and live your best life. Just follow these five steps:

Step 1: Pick up a killer outfit at Nicci Boutique

Nicci Boutique is overflowing with trendy and modern pieces handpicked from the globe’s fashion capitals. To add to that, they have their own local lines, Nicci and Cocoon, featuring dresses made with lace and silk, and those boasting floral prints. Not too keen on rocking a dress? Why not try one of their mesh or hi-lo skirts, or show off your figure in a fitted pencil skirt? These can be teamed with a jacket or cardigan, some of which are embellished with shimmery pearls.

Step 2: Find gorgeous accessories at Woolworths

When standing in front of the jewellery racks, we don’t even know where to start because there’s so much to choose from. There are delicate necklaces made by layering multiple chains, and those created with faux freshwater pearls. Mismatched earrings are all the rage right now and at Woolies, you’ll find pairs including both a drop and stud earring. You can also grab a pack containing various kinds of earrings, and mix them together to design your own pairs.

Step 3: Get your makeup done at Bobbi Brown Cosmetics

The beauty experts at Bobbi Brown Cosmetics are professional makeup artists, who with their enviable skills, can transform you into the most stunning version of yourself. The store’s dazzling interior, featuring luminous chandeliers, is the ideal setting for getting glam. Whether you pick a sultry and dramatic look or opt for a natural glow, everyone’s eyes will be on you. You can also ask the artists to teach you to do your own makeup, by, for instance, applying flawless foundation.

Step 4: Go for dinner at Wood & Fire

A fairly recent addition to the selection of restaurants at the mall is Wood & Fire, an eclectic yet elegant hotspot. Run by a team of cookery gurus, it’s perfect for indulging in a seafood dish like the Crispy Calamari, or a poultry dish like the Teriyaki Chicken. Their range of tapas plates, such as the Mushroom & Parmesan and Haloumi plates, are divine when enjoyed with sparkling cocktails. The marble and terrazzo accents in the décor, give the eatery a cosy vibe.

Step 5: Catch a movie at Ster Kinekor’s cinema

Unwind by digging into a box of popcorn (we love sprinkling ours with butter salt or barbeque spice) as you watch one of the exciting films playing at the moment. If you haven’t seen Crazy Rich Asians, you must book your tickets now. Trust us, you don’t want to miss it! Mamma Mia! Here We Go Again is another must-see that will have you singing along and tapping your feet. Plus, if you’re a Discovery Vitality member, you can check out all the latest releases for half the price!

For more GLAMOUR’s Most GLAMOURous news click here!
