title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Four yummy gin-based cocktail recipes|http://www.glamour.co.za|https://www.glamour.co.za/2018/10/gin-based-cocktail-recipes/|drink,cocktail|2018-10-05|October||The latest delightfully refreshing botanical flavoured, ruby red gin offering from Truman & Orange should definitely be on your next shopping trip list.

The Malfy Con Arancia’s intriguing colour and unique flavour is achieved by using sought-after Sicilian blood orange peels which are steeped in alcohol and pressed in a basket press. The infusion is then blended with Italian juniper, grapefruit peel, Amalfi Coast lemon peel, coriander, Cassia bark, Orris root and Angelica root before distillation.

Founding owner of Truman & Orange, Rowan Leibbrandt said, ‘We couldn’t resist not only the colour but also the flavours of this new Malfy variant. It’s perfectly balanced allowing the delicious botanical flavours to underpin Malfy’s gentle juniper.’

‘We know that with so much choice in the gin category, the product has to offer something truly special for South Africans to try it and we’re confident that Malfy Con Arancia does exactly that.’

Try out one, or maybe all four, of these delicious cocktail recipes Malfy has developed for their Con Arancia flavour.

Malfy Con Arancia Cocktails

Riviera Fizz

Shake 2 parts Malfy con Arancia with 1-part peach liqueur over ice. Strain into a martini glass, add a splash of soda and garnish with a (Sicilian) orange twist.

Malfy con Arancia & tonic

Mix a healthy measure of Malfy con Arancia with your favourite tonic water in an ice-filled highball glass. Garnish with a fresh wedge of (Sicilian) orange.

Sicilian Sour

Mix 4 parts Malfy con Arancia with 1-part fresh lime juice. Add 1 dash of simple syrup, 1 dash of angostura bitters and 2 dashes of orange bitters. Serve over ice in a tumbler and garnish with a strip of (Sicilian) orange.

La Bella Vista

Pour 2 parts Malfy con Arancia over ice in a highball glass. Add 3 parts fresh grapefruit juice and a splash of soda. Stir and garnish with a fresh wedge of (Sicilian) orange.
