title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
I tried shaving with olive oil and was amazed with the result|http://www.glamour.co.za|https://www.glamour.co.za/2018/10/olive-oil-for-shaving/|hacks,olive oil,Tips,shaving,DIY,beauty|2018-10-12|October||Olive oil, the humble cupboard staple we doused our veggies in, may have been replaced by coconut oil in the kitchen but it seems we’re finding a use for it in our bathrooms.

Indeed, experts have long preached the benefits of olive oil and it’s been used for centuries in women’s’ beauty regimes (Cleopatra used to bathe in it) and can be used to cure both a multitude of skin issues and hair woes.

Why? Because it’s packed full of antioxidants, which are essential in the battle against free-radical damage from environmental aggressors (think pollution, UV rays and everyday stress), which causes premature ageing, lacklustre tone and congested skin, and it’s all natural.

It’s also totally non-comedogenic, meaning it won’t block up your pores or cause acne.

As well as using it to make hair glossier and skin smoother, people are preaching the benefits of using it to shave.

Countless beauty bloggers have been taking to forums and YouTube to laud the benefits of the natural oil.

After attempting to shave using coconut oil, albeit unsuccessfully, I decided to give olive oil a whirl.

A word of warning: have a towel to hand because things are going to get pretty damn slippy.

I doused my hands in oil and slathered it over my legs. On reflection, I should have coated just one hand in oil and then held the other to hold my razor because it slipped out of my hand more times than I’ll bore you with.

Where a shower foam leaves guidelines of exactly where you’ve run your razor, shaving with olive oil leaves areas neglected.

Despite my wet and wild shower encounter, my legs were the smoothest they’ve ever been. They felt supple, moisturised and rash-free. I couldn’t stop touching them and made most of my friends have a feel, too (apologies, pals).

Sorry, coconut oil, you may have a place in my frying pan but you’ve been firmly replaced in my bathroom.

Taken from GLAMOUR UK. Read the original here.

For more beauty inspiration and advice, click here!
