title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Kendall Jenner keeps tabs on her ex-boyfriends in the most relatable way|http://www.glamour.co.za|https://www.glamour.co.za/2018/10/kendall-jenner-keeps-tabs-ex-boyfriends/|Lie detector,ex boyfriend,Hailey Baldwin,kendall jenner,Carpool|2018-10-17|October||What happens when you put Kendall Jenner, Hailey Baldwin, and a lie detector test together in a car? A whole lot of hilarious honesty. In a new trailer for an upcoming episode of Carpool Karaoke: The Series, the models alternate between the normal road-trip activity of singing along to their favourite songs and the decidedly not-so-normal activity of doing a lie detector test. Awkward for them, sure, but amazing for the rest of us.

The clip starts with Jenner asking Baldwin if she likes her hair up in a high ponytail, which she says she does (luckily, it turns out to be the truth). From there, though, things get juicier. Baldwin kicks it up a notch by asking her friend, “Have you ever created a fake Instagram to look at what your ex-boyfriend is doing?” Jenner starts laughing and reveals, “You know the answer to this! Yes!” Would 10/10 do the same?

The Keeping Up With the Kardashians star fires back with her own hard-hitting question, asking Baldwin about what her famous fiancé really thinks of her. “Does Justin think I’m cool?” Jenner asks. Baldwin pauses a few uncomfortable seconds before laughing and assuring her friend, “Of course!”

At that point, the lie detector reveals that Baldwin was, in fact, telling a lie. LOL.

Though Bieber may not necessarily think Jenner is “cool” (at least according to the lie detector test), the model is still deeply supportive of the engagement between her two friends. When Jimmy Fallon asked Jenner if she was happy about the news on a recent episode of The Tonight Show, she replied, “Yeah, whatever makes them happy, I’m happy. I’ve been friends with both of them for a very long time. So everybody’s happy, and that makes me happy.”

Taken from GLAMOUR US. Read the original here.
