title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
We found the answer to affordable and cruelty-free makeup!|http://www.glamour.co.za|https://www.glamour.co.za/2018/10/we-found-the-answer-to-affordable-and-cruelty-free-makeup/|beauty,Makeup,vegan,budget-friendly,Cruelty free|2018-10-18|October||With our tough economic climate, prices for almost everything, from rent and petrol to food and clothes, have gone up. On top of that, finding makeup that suits your pocket but leaves you looking stunning can be challenging. Plus, with our modern lifestyles putting our planet under so much pressure, and our furry friends bearing the brunt of that, it’s become more important than ever to avoid animal testing. So, what’s a GLAMOUR girl to do?

It’s simple: glam up with Wet ‘n Wild! They’ve got you covered with their range of budget-friendly and cruelty-free products. We tried them out and these two are our favourites:

Photofocus Foundation

With this magic tool in your makeup kit, you can post flawless selfies to IG no matter where you are! The product features no-flashback technology and a Microsphere Power Blend, which produces a multi-dimensional shape and helps to disperse light. The reflection of light is minimised by matte mica, while blended silicone gives off a soft-focus effect.

Made with a crosspolymer film-forming agent, the foundation is lightweight and easily glides onto your skin, resulting in a super-smooth finish. To add to that, you’re sure to find the perfect match for your skin tone, whether your complexion is light, dark or anything in between! What’s more, you can pick up the latest shades, priced at just R99.95, right now! These include Desert Beige, Cream Beige, Amber Beige, Caramel, Toffee, Cocoa, Mocha, Expresso, Mahogany.

Megalast Catsuit Matte Liquid Lipstick

If you thought there was no vegan lipstick to give you the purrfect pout, think again! This lippie is fragrance and gluten-free, yet extremely long-lasting because it contains film-forming agents. You can effortlessly glide it onto your lips, after which its weightless formula will become dry to create a chic, ultra-matte finish.

That’s not all! The lipstick is also really comfortable to wear since the formula includes emollients that’ll soften your lips. By now, you’ve probably heard that Vitamin E is brilliant for the health of your skin. So, you’ll be glad to know that the lippie is also rich in this key vitamin, thanks to a macadamia derivative. To top it all off, the newest colour, Behind the Bleachers, is now available for only R99.95!

For more beauty inspiration and advice, click here!
