title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
What to eat if you want super shiny hair|http://www.glamour.co.za|https://www.glamour.co.za/2018/10/what-to-eat-if-you-want-super-shiny-hair/|healthy eating,#GLAMOURHair|2018-10-01|October||If you’ve already found your Holy Grail shampoo and conditioner, you’re off to a good start, but for hair with mirror-like shine, you need to work on it from the inside too.

Pack your diet with these nutritious superfoods to transform your dull and lacklustre mane in a matter of weeks. The added bonus? Most of these foods are great for glowing skin, bright eyes and strong nails, too…

Mackerel

If you want thick, full, lustrous locks, then eating plenty of oily fish is an absolute must. Apart from containing nutrients proven to improve brain power, they contain omega 3 and 6 fatty acids, which prevent hair loss, hydrate the scalp and strengthen the follicles. Not a fan of mackerel? Why not try…

Lentils

Vegetarian? Make sure you eat plenty of lentils. As well as protein and carbs, the pulses are packed full of folic acid, or iron, which is essential for transporting oxygen from your blood to your scalp and hair follicles. Good scalp circulation means quicker, stronger hair growth and faster cell renewal.

Spinach

Remember to include a good portion of mixed green veg with all that lean protein and oily fish you’ll be eating for dinner for now on. Leafy greens, like spinach, provide an excellent source of vitamin A, C, folic acid zinc and strengthening natural collagen, among other nutrients.

Dark Chocolate

There are so many reasons you should always say, ‘Yes’, to eating chocolate – particularly if it’s the antioxidant-rich, dark, high-cocoa variety. Need another one? The protein, iron and B-vitamins it contains are fabulous for your hair.

Tomatoes

Tomatoes too, are rich in vitamin C and come with an added, lycopene boost. Lycopene battles naturally occurring enzymes called collagenases that destroy collagen in your body. Getting enough in your diet could help to prevent hair loss and damage as a result.

Taken from GLAMOUR UK. Read the original here.

For more hair advice and inspiration, click here!
