title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Your complete guide to colouring your hair|http://www.glamour.co.za|https://www.glamour.co.za/2018/10/guide-colouring-your-hair/|Casting Crème Gloss,Colour,L'Oreal Paris,Hair,Tips|2018-10-12|October||Your hair isn’t just a physical feature, it’s a tool for expressing your individuality. That’s why it goes without saying that you’re the shade of your hair, should be uniquely you. To gently add colour to your hair, which boasts a natural look, grab a box of Casting Crème Gloss from L’Oréal Paris. This semi-permanent dye will enhance your hair colour with stunning, glistening tones so that you turn heads wherever you go.

The colour lasts for up to 28 shampoos, and will carefully coat your locks to give you full coverage. It comes with a nurturing conditioner blended using coconut oil, goji extract, hazelnut and honey. Thanks to that, your tresses will be fed all the nutrients they need, to stay luscious and full of volume. Plus, Casting Crème Gloss contains not even a trace of ammonia, to ensure a heavenly scent.

The question is, how do you actually go about achieving that gorgeous colour you’re after? If you’ve never dyed your own hair at home before, it can seem rather daunting. But, there’s no need to feel intimidated, because we give you the low-down.

Before you start

Figure out which shade will suit you best, depending on your natural hair colour and skin tone. Since there are plenty of options to choose from, picking one can feel overwhelming. Luckily, L’Oréal Paris developed a Colorista Diagnostic Tool, to help you make your final decision.

Once you know which shade you’re going for, it’s super important to do a skin allergy test by dabbing a small amount of the dye, on a patch behind your ear. Be sure to do so a minimum of 48 hours before you plan to apply Casting Crème Gloss, whether or not you’ve dyed your hair before.

What you need

Every box of Casting Crème Gloss includes not only the dye but also plastic gloves, developer and a conditioning aftercare. Apart from that, you’ll need the following:

An old towel to cover your shoulders so that your clothes don’t get dirty

Petroleum jelly to massage on your hairline and ears, which will prevent the dye from staining your skin

A plastic brush or applicator to help apply the dye evenly across the surface of your hair

What you have to do

Now that you’re prepped for the main event, just follow these 7 easy steps:

Step 1: Brush your hair to remove any knots or tangles.

Step 2: Divide your hair into four or five sections, and fasten them with clips.

Step 3: Using your applicator, or your fingers whilst wearing the plastic gloves, apply Casting Crème Gloss onto each section, being sure to rub it downwards to cover your locks from root to tip.

Step 4: Leave the dye in your hair for the amount of time specified on the box, and remember to set a timer to remind you when it should be removed.

Step 5: Rinse your hair thoroughly with warm water until all the dye has been washed away.

Step 6: Lather on the aftercare conditioner, to keep your tresses in a healthy condition and, of course, looking fabulous.

Step 7: Rinse your hair once again, and you’re done!

To learn more about GLAMOUR Women of the Year, click here!
