title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Zendaya Is taking over for Gigi Hadid as the face of Tommy Hilfiger|http://www.glamour.co.za|https://www.glamour.co.za/2018/10/zendaya-tommy-hilfiger-collaboration/|collab,Tommy Hilfiger,Zendaya,fashion|2018-10-17|October||Zendaya is an actor, a singer, and, of course, Meechee—but she’s adding yet another hat to her collection: designer.

Zendaya was announced as Tommy Hilfiger’s newest global women’s ambassador, a role previously held by Gigi Hadid. As part of the gig, she’ll work alongside the American designer on a capsule collection (much like the supermodel did) due out in Spring 2019.

“I love to collaborate with people who are passionate about making their dreams a reality and who inspire the next generation to do the same,” Hilfiger said in a press release. “Zendaya has become a global icon, using fashion to make bold statements while always staying true to herself. Our capsule collection will fuse her eclectic style with the Americana spirit of our brand.”

“Fashion is more than just wearing cool clothes,” Zendaya said in the release. “It’s a way to celebrate self-expression and individuality, which is extremely empowering. This is why I am proud to partner with Tommy Hilfiger.” She celebrated the new gig by sharing a photo of herself with Hilfiger and her longtime stylist, Law Roach.

View this post on Instagram Spring 2019 collection coming soon✨ #ZendayaXTommy @tommyhilfiger A post shared by Zendaya (@zendaya) on Oct 16, 2018 at 11:45am PDT

Though neither gave any hints about what the collection will include, the brand’s Instagram posts announce the partnership have a distinctly ’60s vibe, with references to several zodiac signs. Hilfiger told WWD that you can expect it to be primarily the product of Zendaya’s own brain and sense of style: “In our collaborations, we’ve found that we take as much information, inspiration and direction from the collaborators as possible. We really want to infuse the collection with their ideas. They are really the target consumer. And one of the reasons we’ve chosen the girls that we’ve chosen is they have very specific ideas about what the looks should be. And it really helps us evolve our brand.”

Tommy x Zendaya is expected to launch in February as a “see-now-buy-now” spring line. Though the brand announced only one season’s collaboration as part of the global women’s ambassador role, both parties will reportedly have the option to continue working together for more collections, per WWD. Zendaya will also appear in Tommy Hilfiger’s global marketing campaigns, beginning next spring.

This isn’t the first time Zendaya tries her hand at designing: She previously had a clothing line called Daya by Zendaya, which she created with Roach.

Taken from GLAMOUR UK. Read the original here.
