title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Bears vs. Dolphins: Final score and highlights for Week 6|http://www.suntimes.com|https://chicago.suntimes.com/sports/bears-dolphins-2018-score-results-live-updates-highlights-week-6/||2018-10-14|Satchel Price||Bears vs. Dolphins: Final score and highlights for Week 6

The Bears returned from their bye with a bang in a wild 31-28 loss to the Dolphins on Sunday afternoon. Jason Sanders hit the 47-yard game-winner as time expired after Cody Parkey missed from 53 yards minutes earlier.

Even before that, the Dolphins had a chance to win in overtime with the ball at the Bears’ 1-yard line when Kenyan Drake fumbled while crossing the goal line. Eddie Goldman recovered the ball in a stunning twist when the game was pretty much over.

The Bears responded by driving to the Dolphins’ 35-yard line before turning to Parkey, who missed wide right. The Dolphins then drove in the last two minutes to set up Sanders’ game-winner.

A poor first half put the Bears in a 7-0 hole at halftime before they exploded in the third quarter to take a 21-13 lead. The team appeared to be on the brink of putting the game away when it scored an apparent touchdown to go up 15, but a penalty brought the play back, then Mitch Trubisky threw an interception for the Bears’ second red zone turnover of the game.

The Dolphins’ Albert Wilson proceeded to shred up the opposing defense in the fourth quarter as Miami repeatedly responded with the game on the line. Osweiler, starting in place of the injured Ryan Tannehill, threw for 380 yards, three touchdowns and two interceptions.

The Bears fall to 3-2 on the season with the loss. Relive a wild Week 6 for the Bears here:

Final score: Dolphins 31, Bears 28 (OT)

Dolphins 31, Bears 28: After a missed field goal by the Bears, the Dolphins’ Jason Sanders hits his 47-yard game-winning attempt to complete a two-minute drill led by Brock Osweiler. That’s a tough one to swallow for Chicago.

Bears 28, Dolphins 28: Cody Parkey misses wide right on a potential game-winning kick from 53 yards. The Bears’ defense will need to hold up again with less than two minutes remaining in overtime.

Bears 28, Dolphins 28: AKIEM HICKS!!! WHAT?!? The Bears were literally inches from losing the game when Hicks forced a fumble on Kenyon Drake that Eddie Goldman recovered in the end zone. Miami needed just a few inches to end the game with a touchdown. Instead, the Bears have the ball and a chance to win. Wild.

Bears 28, Dolphins 28: A ridiculous bounce goes the Dolphins’ way when an errant pass bounces off Adrian Amos and into the hands of Kenny Stills for 35 yards. They’re threatening in Bears’ territory now.

Bears 28, Dolphins 28: Miami wins the toss, which means the Dolphins will have the chance to put away the game with a touchdown.

End of regulation: Bears 28, Dolphins 28

Bears 28, Dolphins 28: The Bears opt to kneel and we’re headed to overtime.

Bears 28, Dolphins 28: The Bears’ defense holds up and forces a punt, but the offense won’t have it easy with the ball at the Dolphins’ 6-yard line with 34 seconds and one timeout.

Bears 28, Dolphins 28: Disaster strikes again with Tarik Cohen fumbling on what would’ve been close to a first down near the middle of the field. The Bears’ defense already looked gassed before, and now it needs to come up with a stop on a short field to keep the game tied. Yikes.

Bears 28, Dolphins 28: Uhhhhhhhh Albert Wilson did the thing.

ALBERT WILSON AGAIN! 75 yards to the house and we're tied in Miami! #CHIvsMIA #FinsUp 📺: FOX pic.twitter.com/dYSNqbdHs5 — NFL (@NFL) October 14, 2018

Even Brock Osweiler seems surprised at this point:

Getting Jordan shrugged by Brock Osweiler is a low point in my life pic.twitter.com/yCHpNVuOzr — Big Cat (@BarstoolBigCat) October 14, 2018

Bears 28, Dolphins 21: Anthony Miller, wide open, easy touchdown. That was beautiful.

Bears 21, Dolphins 21: Some questionable decision-making by Mitch Trubisky down the stretch here but he lucks out when the Dolphins drop what should’ve been an interception. We’re awaiting a big third down after Matt Nagy called timeout.

Bears 21, Dolphins 21: The Bears get a break on third-and-short with a pass interference call on Dolphins rookie Minkah Fitzpatrick.

Bears 21, Dolphins 21: Brock Osweiler somehow finds Kenny Stills at the back of the end zone for a successful two-point conversion. Not that long ago, it seemed like the Bears would go up 28-13. Now it’s all tied up with nine minutes left in the fourth quarter.

Bears 21, Dolphins 19: The Bears’ defense falls apart on a screen pass to Albert Wilson that he takes all the way to the house for a touchdown. Now the Dolphins need to go for two to try to tie up the game.

Bears 21, Dolphins 13: On third-and-5 for Miami, Albert Wilson makes a huge catch over the middle for 28 yards.

Bears 21, Dolphins 13: An apparent touchdown by Tarik Cohen is brought back due to an iffy offensive pass interference for a pick block by Trey Burton, then T.J. McDonald picks off Mitch Trubisky over the middle in the end zone. A potentially huge swing in this game after a terrible decision by the young Bears QB.

Bears 21, Dolphins 13: Tarik Cohen turning on the burners! Yeesh. The running back took a short pass over the middle and flipped on the jets for a 50-yard gain. He’s up to five catches for 68 yards in the game.

Third quarter: Bears 21, Dolphins 13

Bears 21, Dolphins 13: The Bears’ defense bends without breaking as the Dolphins settle for a short field goal from Jason Sanders. Still, it’s a one-score game again now.

Bears 21, Dolphins 10: Leonard Floyd is the victim of the Bears’ first roughing the passer penalty of the season, and naturally it’s a controversial call.

Bears 21, Dolphins 10: Taylor Gabriel with another big play…

.@TGdadon1 is playin' outta this world today! 👽 This 54-yard grab puts him at 114-yards so far today. #CHIvsMIA pic.twitter.com/YF7envuf3d — Chicago Bears (@ChicagoBears) October 14, 2018

… then Tarik Cohen goes almost untouched into the end zone to complete a three-play, 75-yard touchdown drive in exactly one minute.

Bears 14, Dolphins 10: Jason Sanders hits a career-high 50-yard field goal to wrap up an eight-play, 43-yard drive and cut into the Bears’ lead. Brock Osweiler continues to have some chemistry with tight end Nick O’Leary, who caught a 19-yard pass to jumpstart the drive.

Bears 14, Dolphins 7: Touchdown! Allen Robinson scores his second touchdown of the season right after the big turnover. The Bears are starting to roll here.

Bears 7, Dolphins 7: Kyle Fuller doesn’t drop another one! The Bears cornerback gets an easy pick off a sloppy pass from Brock Osweiler and takes it all the way back to the Dolphins’ 12-yard line. That’s the second interception of the game for Fuller.

Kyle Fuller's second pick of the day and the play that led to points.#CHIvsMIA | #DaBears pic.twitter.com/yktEZwTF0B — Chicago Bears (@ChicagoBears) October 14, 2018

Bears 7, Dolphins 7: The shovel pass strikes again!! Mitch Trubisky flips it right to Trey Burton in a crowded area and the tight end bursts through for the team’s first score of the day.

Dolphins 7, Bears 0: A beautiful fake handoff by Mitch Trubisky turns into a 28-yard scamper up the middle that could’ve gone for more if he didn’t trip himself up, then Allen Robinson draws a 32-yard pass interference penalty. The Bears are already at the Dolphins’ 15-yard line.

Halftime: Dolphins 7, Bears 0

Dolphins 7, Bears 0: The Bears avoid a bigger deficit with an interception to wrap up the first half. The Bears will get the ball to open the third quarter.

Dolphins 7, Bears 0: … and then disaster strikes. Jordan Howard fumbles the ball inside the Dolphins’ 3-yard line and Miami recovers.

Dolphins 7, Bears 0: FINALLY A BIG PLAY! Mitch Trubisky hits Taylor Gabriel deep for a 47-yard bomb to give the offense some life.

Dolphins 7, Bears 0: The Bears’ defense delivers its first three-and-out of the day to get the ball back. Now it’s time for the offense to hold up its end of the bargain.

Dolphins 7, Bears 0: Vincent Taylor sacks Mitch Trubisky on another third-and-long to end the Bears’ third drive of the game with a punt.

Dolphins 7, Bears 0: The Bears get gifted a first down when the Dolphins commit defensive holding on what would’ve been a failed third-down conversion.

Dolphins 7, Bears 0: A first down sack put the Bears in a tough spot but they were able to convert a third-and-long to keep the drive going. This definitely doesn’t look like the same offense that shredded up Tampa Bay two weeks ago, but there’s still a lot of football to be played.

Dolphins 7, Bears 0: The Dolphins got all the way to the Bears’ 41-yard line but had to punt on the second play of the second quarter after the drive stalled out from there. Brock Osweiler is 7-of-10 for 70 yards and one touchdown so far.

First quarter: Dolphins 7, Bears 0

Dolphins 7, Bears 0: A turnover on downs for the Bears after a stellar open field tackle of Tarik Cohen by Reshad Jones. Cohen tried to take it outside on a toss and never got the edge. The Bears have 40 total yards and zero points through two drives.

Dolphins 7, Bears 0: The Bears are into Dolphins’ territory on their second drive but still haven’t had a play longer than nine yards in the game yet. Now comes a big third-and-2 on the Dolphins’ 42.

Dolphins 7, Bears 0: Brock Osweiler hits Nick O’Leary with an accurate pass for the touchdown. This probably isn’t the start anyone expected for the Bears’ defense, which hasn’t looked great so far.

Bears 0, Dolphins 0: Danny Amendola refuses to go down so Leonard Floyd pile drives him to the ground and gets busted for a personal foul. The Dolphins have the ball inside the Bears’ 8-yard line after the unnecessary penalty.

uhhhhh Leonard Floyd body slammed Danny Amendola 😳 pic.twitter.com/D5v84qzD5U — SB Nation (@SBNation) October 14, 2018

Bears 0, Dolphins 0: The Dolphins are into Bears’ territory after Brock Osweiler found Jakeem Grant off a nice route for a 25-yard pickup on third down.

Bears 0, Dolphins 0: Mitch Trubisky missed a big opportunity up the middle on third down with a wide open Anthony Miller, so the Dolphins will go back to work at their own 46-yard line after a punt. That’s just the second time this season the Bears have failed to score a touchdown on their opening drive.

Bears 0, Dolphins 0: Brock Osweiler got the Dolphins a first down with a 14-yard pass to Nick O’Leary, but their struggles on third down continued with a dropped pass by Albert Wilson. Osweiler can’t really be blamed for that one, which would’ve pushed Miami into field goal territory.

Before the game

The Bears look to stay hot coming out of their bye week with a Week 6 road game against the Dolphins on Sunday afternoon. They’ll be rocking the orange jerseys for the first time this season under the hot and humid weather in South Florida, where the heat index is expected to be near 100 at kickoff.

The matchup should be a favorable one for the Bears despite the game being held on the road. The Dolphins have lost back-to-back games after a 3-0 start to the season. Even worse for Miami, backup Brock Osweiler is set to start at quarterback with Ryan Tannehill out due to injury.

That development should have Khalil Mack, Akiem Hicks and the rest of the Bears defense licking their chops. Tannehill, while not an elite NFL passer, at least brings some athleticism and mobility to the table. Osweiler, a 6-7 tree trunk of a quarterback, will likely have a long afternoon trying to dodge arguably the most fearsome pass rush in football. His only playing time this season came in mop-up duty of a blowout loss to the Patriots two weeks ago.

Thanks to our fabulous @NFLResearch dept … 6 of Khalil Mack’s 45.5 career sacks have come against Brock Osweiler. Mack set his single game career high in sacks (5) against Osweiler in 2015, Wk14 (Raiders won the game 15-12). #CHIvsMIA @nflnetwork — StaceyDales (@StaceyDales) October 14, 2018

For the Bears’ offense, the big question is whether Mitch Trubisky can keep it up after his breakout six-touchdown performance against Tampa Bay. The team likely won’t need that kind of effort Sunday, especially with Vic Fangio’s crew facing an Osweiler-led offense this week, but the second-year QB needs to show some sustained progress after tearing up the Buccaneers.

Here’s a look at the orange jerseys:

How to watch Bears vs. Dolphins

Time: 12 p.m.

TV: FOX

Live stream: FOX Sports Go
