title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
A 'Kavanaugh bump' is boosting GOP Senate candidates. But Trump is a different story.|https://www.cnbc.com|https://www.cnbc.com/2018/10/13/kavanaugh-bump-is-boosting-gop-senate-candidates-but-trump-is-a-different-story.html||2018-10-13|Christina Wilkie,Chip Somodevilla,Getty Images||According to the polling average maintained by Real Clear Politics, during the past two weeks the president's approval ratings have risen to around 43 percent. This is up 2 points from where Trump's approval ratings had been in mid-September, when they sunk to 41 percent, the lowest polling average Trump had seen since March, according to RCP.

For most of the summer, however, Trump's approval ratings in RCP polls sat at around 43 percent. The statistics site FiveThirtyEight.com averaged the president's approval ratings at around 42 percent for the same period, between mid-June and September, when they briefly dropped below 40 percent.

Among experts, however, the only consensus about how much Kavanaugh helped Trump's poll numbers is that it's unclear.

And despite the emergence of a narrative attributing Trump's slight boost to a so-called Kavanaugh bump, it's difficult to determine how much of Trump's recovery is actually a reflection of the Kavanaugh confirmation fight.

This is because so many other issues might have impacted voters' views of the president, ranging from the strong economy to the burgeoning trade war with China.

As veteran polling analyst Nate Silver of FiveThirtyEight.com wrote on Oct. 4:

Trump's approval ratings have largely followed the same trajectory as the generic ballot, having slumped in early-to-mid September and since rebounded slightly. It's not clear how much of that is Kavanaugh-related, however, as the president was dealing with a lot of other news in August and early September, such as the guilty pleas of Paul Manafort and Michael Cohen. Merely staying out of the headlines while Kavanaugh was the lead story may have helped Trump's numbers revert to the mean.

But while it remains difficult to gauge the impact Kavanaugh had on Trump's poll numbers, what seems clear is that Trump's handling of the Kavanaugh confirmation has had a real impact on Republican voters.
