title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
CNBC Healthy Returns|http://www.cnbc.com|https://www.cnbc.com/2017/11/08/healthy-returns.html||2017-11-08|||9:00-10:40 am

Welcoming Remarks

Tyler Mathisen, Co-Anchor, “Power Lunch,” CNBC The Gatekeeper: Opening Conversation with FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb When he took the lead at the FDA, Scott Gottlieb was seen as a pro-pharma choice. His legacy thus far, however, has been far more complicated. He’s taken on market inefficiencies, is approving generics at a record pace and trying to bring down drug prices. We’ll talk to him about what’s next at the FDA, including his vision for attacking the opioid crisis and his plans to balance public safety with faster drug approvals.

Scott Gottlieb, M.D., Commissioner of Food and Drugs, U.S. FDA

Interviewer: Meg Tirrell, Biotech and Pharma Reporter CNBC The Investor Angle: What We’re Excited About Now Leading investors give brief presentations on what they view as the most exciting and investable opportunities in health care for 2018 and beyond.

Venture Capital: Esther Dyson, Executive Founder, Way to Wellville; Board Member, 23 and Me and Open Humans Foundation

M&A: Christopher O'Connor, Partner, Perella Weinberg Partners

Moderator: Jim Cramer, Host, "Mad Money w/ Jim Cramer;" Co-Anchor, "Squawk on the Street,", CNBC Getting Personal: Why It Matters Thirteen-year-old Paige Whorton lives her life with great gusto. “I like parasailing, exploring and ziplining — daredevil stuff,” she says with a giggle. But she developed debilitating, degenerative pain in her joints, and doctors couldn’t diagnose its cause. That’s where genetic testing and personalized medicine came in — and saved her life.

Paige Whorton

John Noseworthy, M.D., President and CEO, Mayo Clinic Editing Ethically: Big Hopes And Big Fears About CRISPR Few medical innovations have engendered as much excitement as CRISPR, but the gene-editing technology raises serious ethical questions: Will the power to edit our own DNA outpace our ability to decide as a society how far we want to go? In a global race for advancements, how do we balance the quest for innovation and better health against worries about “designer babies” and unleashing irreversible genetic changes?

Luke Dow, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biochemistry in Medicine, Weill Cornell Medicine

Jeffrey Kahn, Ph.D., Director, Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioethics

Moderator: Meg Tirrell, Biotech and Pharma Reporter, CNBC
