title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Disruptor 50 Roadshow Philly: Actionable insights from the most disruptive business minds|https://www.cnbc.com|https://www.cnbc.com/2018/05/23/d50roadshowphilly.html||2018-05-23|||2:30PM

Philly Fanatics: Changing the Fan Apparel Game and Rebuilding the 76ers Philadelphia native Michael Rubin disrupted the market for official sports team apparel. Fanatics, the company he created just 7 years ago, pulls in more than $2 billion in annual sales, turning celebratory sports moments into real-time global merchandising opportunities. His playbook emphasizes an agile supply chain and on-demand manufacturing. Rubin is also one of the front-office leaders responsible for the resurgence of the Philadelphia 76ers – an inspiring sports business turnaround story. He’ll talk about all that and more with CNBC’s own Philly fanatic, Jim Cramer. Michael Rubin, Founder & Executive Chairman, Fanatics*; Co-Owner, Philadelphia 76ers and New Jersey Devils Moderator: Jim Cramer, Host, &quot;Mad Money w/ Jim Cramer;&quot; Co-Anchor, &quot;Squawk on the Street,&quot; CNBC Renting and Revving: Ecommerce in the Age of Amazon The e-commerce free market is alive and well. Retail startups continue to disrupt the old guard. Some go narrow and deep, building passionate digital communities where commerce thrives. Others find pricing inefficiencies in a market,exploit them on behalf of consumers and pass along the savings at scale. Whatever the model: the more successful the firm; the faster the growth; the more likely the team will find itself – at some point – looking in the rear-view mirror for a guy in Seattle named Jeff Bezos. CNBC Disruptor 50 company Rent the Runway and Philadelphia-born RevZilla have each uniquely found a place in the hearts of a healthy following of customers who’ve remained loyal as they’ve built formidable brands. Any entrepreneur, current, aspiring or even recovering, will learn much from these journeys. Anthony Bucci, Founder & Former CEO, RevZilla.com Maureen Sullivan, COO, Rent the Runway* Moderator: Julia Boorstin, Senior Media & Entertainment Correspondent, CNBC Disrupting Dinner: Food innovation from seed to table Is your cheesesteak getting cheaper? If not, you may want to ask “why not?” Sales of wholesale processed cheese are set to decline for the fourth straight year in 2018, and prices are falling with the drop in demand. It’s another slice of evidence that consumers continue to raise the bar for manufacturers when it comes to what’s in their food and where it comes from. In particular, people (and not just millennials) are demanding local, organic, and sustainable food, and many are willing to pay more to get it. All of this makes for a hearty opportunity for venture capitalists and big food companies investing in startups that make food grow easier, last longer, and taste better. A disruptive farmer and one of Philly’s top chefs share how listening to your customers can have delicious results. David Perry, CEO, Indigo Agriculture* Jennifer Carroll, Co-Executive Chef and Partner, Spice Finch Moderator: Kate Rogers, Reporter, CNBC
