title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Five sustainable strategies every CEO should pursue|http://www.cnbc.com/energy|http://www.cnbc.com/advertorial/2018/09/28/five-sustainable-strategies-every-ceo-should-pursue.html||2018-09-28|Paid Post Schneider Electric||Companies leading on sustainability recognize that natural resources are finite — we only have one planet. This mindset drives companies to develop innovative ways to manage resources, including new products and services. Ultimately, this increases business flexibility, allows companies to rapidly adapt, and drives sustainable growth.

Circularity

The adoption of circular business practices is one key way in which companies can harness resiliency. By re-evaluating the way resources are consumed, products are made, services are delivered, and waste is managed, companies can reduce expense, future-proof operations, and reimagine their businesses.

Renewable Energy

Switching to renewable energy can help companies develop sustainable resources. Using renewables reduces expense while achieving environmental goals. IRENA predicts that the cost of clean, carbon-free electricity will be cheaper than fossil fuels, everywhere, by 2020.

Renewables are returning impressive results. Thanks to a wind power purchase agreement (PPA) at its Texas data centre, Hewlett Packard has reached its 2020 operational emissions reduction goal five years early and avoided the annual emission of more than 340,000 tons of carbon dioxide.

Smarter, More E­fficient Operations

Doing more with less is possible through cyber-physical systems, the Internet of Things (IoT), and cloud computing, which create efficiencies and smarter operations.

Entrade is a pioneering company that turns waste into sustainable energy. The firm uses Schneider Electric's EcoStruxure, an IoT solution that allows greater connectivity and automation. Streamlined operations in the firm's 250 Liverpool-based plants are now run remotely, and more efficiently, from the head office in Germany.

"IoT is the foundation of our business model," says Julian Ulhig, CEO Entrade. "Now I'm able to run an entire global utility from my mobile phone, and this would not be possible without EcoStruxure."
