title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Fox hires former Trump aide Hope Hicks as top communications officer|http://www.cnbc.com/editors-picks|http://www.cnbc.com/2018/10/08/hope-hicks-lands-at-fox-news-as-chief-communications-officer.html||2018-10-08|Valerie Block||Former White House communications director Hope Hicks has landed at Fox 12:21 PM ET Wed, 10 Oct 2018 | 00:55

Months after leaving the White House, Hope Hicks will head to Fox to become its new chief communications officer.

Hicks is best known as one of President Donald Trump's most trusted aides. She served as White House communications director and director of strategic communications for Trump until she left in April of this year.

The company, which will be spun off after Disney completes its $71 billion takeover of 21st Century Fox, will be home to Fox News, the conservative-leaning news and commentary network. Trump is an outspoken fan of Fox News, often promoting their programming on his Twitter feed.

Hicks' move represents a swap of sorts. After she left the White House, former Fox News executive Bill Shine took over a role similar to hers, as deputy chief of staff for communications. Hicks' new role could well strengthen Trump's already-firm ties to Fox News.

Both Hicks and Shine left their previous jobs under clouds of controversy.

Hicks had been dating former White House staff secretary Rob Porter, who at the time had been accused of spousal abuse. Hicks also admitted during testimony to the House Intelligence Committee during its investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election that she had told "white lies" for Trump.

Similarly, Shine was pushed out at Fox News over his handling of sexual harassment scandals that engulfed the network during the Roger Ailes era.

In addition to the Hicks appointment, Fox said it named Danny O'Brien head of government relations. He is currently at General Electric, where he serves as a senior government affairs and policy executive.

O'Brien previously served as chief of staff to Democratic Sens. Joe Biden and Robert Menendez and worked as staff director on the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

"Hope and Danny are proven leaders and world-class public affairs professionals. Together they will define and project Fox's voice to our relevant communities," Viet Dinh, Fox chief legal and policy officer, said in a statement.

The appointments take effect upon close of the Disney transaction. The deal is expected to close during the first half of 2019.

White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders applauded Hicks' appointment in a tweet:

"FOX won't find anyone smarter or more talented than Hope Hicks. So happy for my friend," Sanders said.
