title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
FT says James Murdoch is in line for Tesla chair. Elon Musk's reply: Incorrect|http://www.cnbc.com/quotes|https://www.cnbc.com/2018/10/11/ft-says-james-murdoch-is-in-line-for-tesla-chair-elon-musks-reply-wrong.html||2018-10-11|Tony Barson,Filmmagic,Getty Images,Patrick T. Fallon,Bloomberg||Murdoch, already an independent director of Tesla, has signaled he wants the job, the report said.

The son of Fox mogul Rupert Murdoch, he joined Tesla's board last year after years of work with media companies. He has no experience in manufacturing and has never led a company that makes cars or electric vehicles.

Murdoch could not immediately be reached for comment. Tesla did not respond to a request for comment. Twenty-First Century Fox declined to comment.

Musk is the public face of Tesla, and any chairman would have to contend with his powerful personality. Thanks to his vision and audacious showmanship, Tesla's valuation has at times eclipsed that of traditional, established U.S. automakers with billions in revenues and the company has garnered legions of fans, despite repeated production issues.

"The question when it comes to James Murdoch is, 'Is he the guy who'll be able to establish that level of authority with Elon Musk?'" asked Abby Adlerman, CEO of Boardspan, a corporate governance consulting company.

Investor concerns that Tesla's board was too closely tied to Musk led to the company's addition of two independent directors, including Murdoch, in July 2017.

Earlier this year, leading U.S. proxy advisers Glass Lewis & Co and Institutional Shareholder Services, and union-affiliated investment adviser CtW Investment Group, had recommended investors cast votes "against" the re-election of Murdoch as a Tesla director at the company's annual meeting held on June 5.

While CtW cited a lack of relevant experience and a "troubled history as an executive and director," both proxy firms warned that Murdoch already served on too many boards.

Murdoch currently serves on the boards of Twenty-First Century Fox and News Corp. He stepped down from the board of Sky on Tuesday following the completion of Comcast's takeover of the broadcaster.

Murdoch was forced out as chairman of Sky, then BSkyB, in 2012 after being embroiled in Britain's phone-hacking scandal. He returned to Sky's board in 2016 after rebuilding his career at Fox.

Glass Lewis research director Courteney Keatinge said on Wednesday that while Murdoch's departure from Sky could alleviate some concerns, the Tesla chairmanship would still require a big time commitment as the company faces pressures on many fronts.

"I would still have reservations about the time he would be able to allot to this," Keatinge said.

According to the FT report, external options were still being considered.

Considering a broad choice of candidates was important, said Dieter Waizenegger, executive director of CtW Investment Group, because "Investors should really be wary about the board making the easy choice here" in opting for Murdoch.

Murdoch is set to be succeeded by his brother Lachlan Murdoch as Twenty First Century Fox chief executive officer, after the media group completes the sale of bulk of its assets to Walt Disney.
