title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Most Americans are in the dark about their tax bill, but think Trump's plan won't help|http://www.cnbc.com|http://www.cnbc.com/2017/10/05/most-americans-dont-know-their-tax-bill-but-think-trump-plan-wont-help.html||2017-10-05|Nick Wells,Eric Chemi,Anne Rippy,Getty Images||Both the Reconnect and Fluent surveys asked people if they knew about the proposed tax plan and then asked if they thought the plan would mean their taxes went up or down.

The results were from both polls were similar. A lot of people did not know about the plan, but they still had a strong opinion on it. Despite not knowing about the plan, people on average expected their taxes to go up as a result.

A quarter of respondents to Fluent's poll said the plan would hurt them, with only a fifth saying it would help them. That was largely split on party lines, with 7 percent of Democrats and 41 percent of Republicans saying the plan would help them. Among both parties, half of respondents didn't know what the effect would be on their returns.

The details need to be worked out, but Trump advisor Gary Cohn famously said in September that a family making $100,000 could save around $1,000 with the new tax plan. With that money, they could "renovate their kitchen" or "buy a new car," he said. But bigger refund checks might not be the economic boon Cohn thinks.

A third of people say they would pay off bills if they got $1,000 in tax savings, according to Fluent's poll. Twenty percent said they would save it, and only 12 percent said they would "spend it" or "buy a car."

The ultimate effects of the tax plan are equally split on party lines: 50 percent of Republicans say the tax plan will stimulate the economy and help the middle class, while only around 10 percent of Democrats agree, according to Fluent's poll.

There was one sign of bipartisan agreement: Only 10 percent of Republicans and 6 percent of Democrats believe the taxes they currently pay are put to good use.

Reconnect's poll was conducted by telephone on Oct. 2 and 3, 2017, among 1,004 adults in the U.S. It has a margin of error of 3 percentage points. Fluent's poll was conducted online on Sept. 30, 2017, among 1,570 adults.
