title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Cannabis 101: What You Need to Know|http://www.sfgate.com|https://blog.sfgate.com/storystudio/2018/08/16/cannabis-101-what-you-need-to-know/||2018-08-16|||By StoryStudio

Now that it’s fully legal here in California, cannabis is no longer trapped in the dazed and confused stereotypes of yesteryear. Today, marijuana is medicine, and a superior form of it at that, with few long-term side effects and an array of highly specialized products to meet the needs of its diverse consumers.

Online cannabis communities like HelloMD make finding the right product for you easy, whether you’re a Menlo Park mom taking cannabis-infused mints to ease chronic pain or an Oakland-based tech bro using a vape pen to calm your nerves before a big work presentation. Thanks to its informational blog, digital doctors and online store selling a variety of cannabis products, HelloMD is a prime destination for smart cannabis use.

But we get it: Outdated stigmas can be tough to shake—and confusing vocabulary doesn’t help. Curious about marijuana but feel out of the loop? Let’s start with the basics.

1. What are the active ingredients?

It’s easy for cannabis newcomers to feel like outsiders because they don’t understand the lingo. Here are the main terms you’re likely to run into as you explore different cannabis-based products.

THC is short for tetrahydrocannabinol. It’s the psychoactive component, the one that gets you high (and the one that many other states haven’t gotten around to legalizing yet). CBD, on the other hand, is cannabidiol, the non-psychoactive counterpart of THC. Known for its relaxation properties, CBD has been called the medicine of the future and has been used in the treatment of anxiety disorders, epilepsy, eating disorders, and pain. Recent studies have shown CBD’s benefits in helping patients cope with cancer, diabetes, and inflammation. CBD can balance out THC, and if you’re in California and see a ratio on a product, it’s usually CBD:THC. The higher the CBD-to-THC ratio, the lower the chance you’ll experience psychoactive effects.

2. What kind of cannabis is right for me?

First off, it’s important to know that everyone reacts differently to cannabis due to a number of factors, including biochemistry, metabolism, method of administration, etc. In terms of overall effects, cannabis has been historically divided into two categories: sativa and indica, the plant’s two primary genera. Some people think of sativa as a daytime cannabis that’s best for when you’re being social or active, since sativas are generally more stimulating, cerebral, and uplifting. Indicas, on the other hand, are considered more sedative. Think of them as a nighttime and weekend option for relaxing or falling asleep. However, most cannabis strains cultivated today are hybrids, and understanding the difference between THC and CBD, and their respective ratios, along with the many other cannabinoids is the best way to know how cannabis will effect you.

3. How do I use it?

The legalization of medicinal and recreational marijuana in various states and countries means that there’s now a much wider array of ways to consume. If you’re trying cannabis for the first time or returning after a long hiatus, it’s worth understanding different consumption methods and considering which would best suit your needs.

…

New Gallery 2018/8/17 Dosist Bliss originaldate 1/1/0001 6:00:00 AM width 1200 height 800 Dr. Kerklaan – Natural Pain Cream originaldate 1/1/0001 6:00:00 AM width 1200 height 800 Jetty Dablicator originaldate 1/1/0001 6:00:00 AM width 1200 height 800 Level Soothe originaldate 1/1/0001 6:00:00 AM width 1200 height 800 Terra Blueberries originaldate 1/1/0001 6:00:00 AM width 1200 height 800

Smoking: If you close your eyes and think of someone consuming marijuana, chances are you’re picturing them smoking. Whether they’re lighting a joint or a pipe, they’re using the dried marijuana flower from the cannabis plant, which produces smoke when lit.

Vape pens: Vaping is done by heating cannabis oil in a cartridge to the point of vaporization. It’s thought to be a healthier form of consumption than smoking because you’re inhaling vapor instead of smoke. Overall, vaping is more discreet and convenient than smoking.

You’ll feel the effects of the cannabis much more quickly by smoking or vaping than, say, by eating an edible. Immediate results can be a good thing—it will help you avoid overconsumption, making it easier to dose correctly.

What's your preferred consumption method? Smoking

Vape Pens

Edibles

Sublinguals

Hash or Wax

Topicals View Results

Loading ... Loading ...

Edibles: While cannabis can technically be added to anything that you eat or drink, newcomers might want to steer more toward tablets, sprays, tinctures, and other products with small, carefully measured doses. That way, you can eat a small mint emblazoned with a marijuana leaf and know that you’re getting only 2.5 mg of THC—a very manageable dose.

Sublinguals: Designed for quick and easy consumption, sublinguals are dissolvable tabs of cannabis or CBD that you place under your tongue. Absorbed through the mouth’s mucosal membranes rather than the digestive system (as is the case for edibles), sublinguals are a more direct means for cannabis to enter your bloodstream. Place a tab like this one under your tongue for 3 mg of CBD to quickly ease your stress.

Hash or wax: Cannabis also comes in hash and wax form, made from the plant’s resin, but we don’t recommend starting there because it’s a highly concentrated form that delivers a blast of cannabis rather than a slow build.

Topicals: Plenty of other products come infused with cannabis, ranging from lotions to bubble baths. We told you: it’s a brave new world.

Learn more about the different forms of medical marijuana here.

4. Why should I use it?

Now you understand the basics. But you still might not know exactly what you’re looking for. With so many products on the market, where do you start? The best place to begin is with yourself. Why are you interested in cannabis products? Are you dealing with stress or trying to manage a condition? What kind of experience are you looking for, and when do you envision consuming it?

Answering questions like these is the best way to determine where to start. Don’t be afraid to talk to a doctor or ask lots of questions. It may feel intimidating at first, but cannabis professionals are genuinely interested in pairing you with the right product and helping you understand what you’ll be consuming.

Studies show myriad health benefits of cannabis, and recreational marijuana laws mean you don’t necessarily need a medical reason to experiment. Spend a little time researching what would fit best with your needs, whether it’s headache relief or managing a yeast infection. You may be surprised at the number of ailments cannabis can address.

5. Tips to keep in mind?

If you’re ready to give cannabis a try, pick a product that sounds like a good fit for you. Everyone reacts slightly differently and tolerance levels vary, so the best way to find a match is to experiment. When you’re ready to start, keep these pointers in mind.

Start low: Start with a low dose—this is especially true if consuming an edible that takes longer to kick in. Microdosing, which means consuming the smallest amount necessary to bring about the desired therapeutic effect, is a great way to discover what works best for you.

Go slow: Even if you’re using a fast-acting cannabis product, like a vape pen, it pays to go slow. Ease into it. You can always take more later.

Read the label: This will help you determine how long something takes to go into effect, and also how much of it you should start with. Stricter labeling laws just took effect in California, making it easier than ever to understand exactly what you’re taking.

Start on your own turf: It’s also worth experimenting at home in a controlled, comfortable, and safe environment. Work your way up as you become more familiar with the product. Consider trying it with friends, or joining an online community like HelloMD for additional support.
