title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Defining Your Privacy in a Time of Opt-ins & Notifications|http://www.sfgate.com|https://blog.sfgate.com/storystudio/2018/08/13/defining-your-privacy-in-a-time-of-opt-ins-and-notifications/?utm_source=sfgaterail||2018-08-13|||By StoryStudio

Technology junkies are everywhere. They’re typing away on a laptop one minute, then picking up their cell phone to scroll through Instagram before glancing down at a smart watch to read a news notification. While not everyone is completely plugged in, it does seem that if the human race follows its current path towards total technological dependence, our attention spans may be reduced to that of a goldfish. Our time and attention is now a commodity that is being bought and sold from one titan of technology to another, while our privacy seems to be thrown out the window. The implications are serious. But is it the responsibility of the product makers to tackle these problems, or is the onus on humans to make a more conscious effort to stem their dependence on machines?

﻿

The cutting edge of technology is sharpening its blade, and as more platforms (both social and otherwise) emerge, more user data is being harvested and more notifications hijack our concentration. How much technology is too much – or is there no limit? Can we effectively leave technology behind, or at least curb our dependence on it, and still lead meaningful and modern lives? Is our privacy being protected by the platforms we give our time to? Is there a way we can be proactive about protecting ourselves? Now, three experts on the intersection of society and technology will sit down and discuss these subjects for the San Francisco Chronicle’s next event in the ongoing series, Chronicle Chats.

“New Technology: Is it Time to Opt Out?” will be moderated by Fernando Diaz, the San Francisco Chronicle’s managing editor for digital coverage. Diaz, formerly of the Center for Investigative Reporting, will be navigating the undeniably provocative discussion between three esteemed panelists: Aza Raskin, Renee DiResta, and Brian Behlendorf. Tickets for “New Technology: Is it Time to Opt Out?” are still available. Use code “SFGATE” to get 50% off. This can’t-miss conversation will take place at the Herbst Theatre on September 17. Not only will Diaz and the panelists discuss the rising tide of technology and its effect on society, they’ll also give the audiences tips on how to avoid the inevitable pitfalls that come with using (and over-using) technology. Those who want to learn how to protect themselves better against data harvesters, create boundaries with their dependence, limit usage and modify setups should buy tickets to this event before time runs out.

Each individual relates to technology in a personal way, and the three panelists who will be addressing these issues bring their own personal history to the stage, offering guidance and information specific to their backgrounds. Aza Raskin is the Co-Founder of both the Earth Species Project and Center for Humane Technology. The Earth Species Project is a non-profit AI research institute that hopes to bridge the gap between technology and humans. The Center for Humane Technology is helping to realign technology with humanity’s best interests. But Raskin is also is well-known for being one of the creators of infinite scroll, the implications of which he has begun to question. By removing a cue for humans to stop scrolling through Facebook, Instagram, et al,. Raskin has contributed to hundreds of millions of hours of wasted time. In a recent interview for the Wall Street Journal, Aza wondered if Silicon Valley was programming apps or people. By being on both sides of this debate at different times in his life, Raskin can bring insight to this Chronicle Chats that many will find enlightening.

Renee DiResta is the Head of Policy at Data for Democracy, and a Staff Associate at the Columbia University Data Science Institute. DiResta is also a digital leader on the battleground on anti-social media, and has urged Silicon Valley to think about the impact that technology is having on us as a society. While DiResta believes in the promise of technology, she also knows that algorithms that operate without human oversight can easily be manipulated by bad actors, as we’ve seen come to fruition with Russian hackers deceiving Facebook users by the millions. DiResta has also made it a point to understand the physical, individual and interpersonal implications of technology and the contribution they make to both personal and societal problems. Her knowledge of misinformation, disinformation, and ideas about whether or not technological design should have ethical oversight will add to this compelling debate.

Panelist Brian Behlendorf is the Executive Director of Hyperledger, an open source collaborative effort to advance cross-industry blockchains. Blockchains, most often associated with BitCoin, allow for digital information to be distributed but not copied. Behlendorf, a self-proclaimed diplomat who hopes to bring together developers and those who need their services, believes that by automating business processes and systems that depend on bureaucracy (and humans) we will be able to cut costs, and make those businesses more efficient and more accountable. Behlendorf is of the mind that when we start to deploy these ideas, the intractable problems that lie at the intersection of technology and society will suddenly by solvable. Will there be an app or algorithm that can change human behavior for the better? Behlendorf will bring his forward-thinking ideas to the Chronicle Chats repartee that will surely reverberate throughout the industry.

The idea of our dependence on technology and its implications has never been more relevant. Make sure to get your tickets to “New Technology: Is it Time to Opt Out?” at the Herbst Theatre on September 17 to see these thought-leaders discuss an issue that affects us all. Use code “SFGATE” to get 50% off.
