title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Meet the Farmers and Vintners at the Sierra Oro Farm Trail Passport Weekend|http://www.sfgate.com|https://blog.sfgate.com/storystudio/2018/07/17/meet-the-farmers-and-vintners-at-the-sierra-oro-farm-trail-passport-weekend/||2018-07-17|||By StoryStudio

﻿

Butte County is fast becoming California’s next “must visit” destination for winery tastings and immersive agricultural tours. Long known for its outdoor adventure and as a home to craft brewing, a couple of days in Butte County unveils a world of thriving family farms, superb new world vintages and old world traditions such as olive oil.

join us! Passport Weekend is October 6th and 7th. For just $30 in advance you and friends can participate in a tasting featuring over 30 wineries and specialty farms.

For a true farm-and-vine-to-table experience, partake in Butte County’s farm-fresh flavors on the ​ Sierra Oro Farm Trail​ (SOFT). More like an expert guide than an actual trail, SOFT is a nonprofit association of Butte County farms, wineries, and breweries. And don’t forget ​Passport Weekend​ October 6t​ h​ & 7t​h​. For just $30 in advance you and friends can participate in a tasting featuring over 30 wineries and specialty farms. Many of the farms are open year round, so gather your friends, significant other (or both!) for a weekend SOFT tour. Set your own pace, or follow the SOFT schedule below. Either way, you’ll meet local farmers and winemakers and sample the best of Butte County’s bounty. Cheers!

Your Butte County Itinerary

New Clairvaux Vineyard

You won’t find many stories in all of California to match the narrative at New Clairvaux Vineyard. At one time site to the world’s largest winery during the 18th​ century the property is now home to the Abbey of New Clairvaux. But the story doesn’t end there. Winemaker Aimée Sunseri is considered one of the leading winemakers in the world, named the “International Woman Winemaker of the Year” in 2017. The fifth-generation winemaker works with the community of Trappist-Cistercian monks, an order dedicated to personal prayer, communal prayer and manual labor, to create handcrafted, award-winning wine. A visit to the tasting room is much more than a chance to sample Old Vine Zinfandel, Merlot and Albarino among other varietals, it’s an opportunity to witness one of the most mythical orders in the Catholic faith answer their calling.





























Image 1 of / 8 Caption Close Image 2 of 8 Image 3 of 8 Image 4 of 8 Image 5 of 8 Image 6 of 8 Image 7 of 8 Image 8 of 8 Meet the Farmers and Vintners at the Sierra Oro Farm Trail Passport Weekend 1 / 8 Back to Gallery

Lodestar Farms



A visit to a thriving local family farm leaves us with a sense of renewed spirit concerning our food and future. Nowhere is this feeling more palpable than at Lodestar Farms, one of the state’s leading producers of olive oil. You’ll see the kids collecting eggs, the parents working the store and several community members who are eager to share their personal history about Butte County farming. ​Lodestar Farms​ has produced quality extra virgin olive oil for 25 years.

“The heart and soul of our farm are those 100-year old olive trees,” says Jamie Johansson, owner of Lodestar Farms. “It’s not just the history of our farm but the farmers who have produced olive oil in Oroville since 1895. One of the things we want people to walk away with after visiting is that there is a real family who lives here the most important thing is that we really care.” Visit their tasting room to sample Lodestar Late-Harvest Mission Olive Oil and flavored oils. You’ll never look back after you’ve tasted fresh olive oil produced within pit’s throw from the olive trees.





































Image 1 of / 10 Caption Close Image 2 of 10 Image 3 of 10 Image 4 of 10 Image 5 of 10 Image 6 of 10 Image 7 of 10 Image 8 of 10 Image 9 of 10 IslBG IslBG Image 10 of 10 Meet the Farmers and Vintners at the Sierra Oro Farm Trail Passport Weekend 1 / 10 Back to Gallery

LaRocca Vineyards

“We’re proud of our organic growing practices and organic wine making skills,” explains Philip LaRocca, a Master Organic Grower. Located at 2,600-feet and encompassing 100 acres on Doe Mill Ridge, a visit to LaRocca Vineyards downtown Chico Tasting Room takes you directly into the future of American viticulture without sacrificing one ounce of taste on your palate. Opening ​at 1:30 on Monday through Friday and Sunday, and Saturdays at noon, you can​ sit back and sample their local estate-bottled wines, which range from Chardonnay and Cabernet Rosé to Merlot and Pinot Noir. Don’t forget to ask questions about how LaRocca Vineyards is pioneering sustainable, no sulfites added, organic winemaking.





































Image 1 of / 10 Caption Close Image 2 of 10 Image 3 of 10 Image 4 of 10 Image 5 of 10 Image 6 of 10 Image 7 of 10 Image 8 of 10 Image 9 of 10 Image 10 of 10 Meet the Farmers and Vintners at the Sierra Oro Farm Trail Passport Weekend 1 / 10 Back to Gallery

Harrison’s California Chestnuts

﻿﻿

Chestnuts are the new almond, a nutritious and tasty snack that enhances recipes and transcends roasted holiday traditions thanks to its low-fat, high in fiber content. Sandy Harrison started farming here in 2004, adding hundreds of new trees, “Orchard farming of chestnuts is fairly new in the United States. People are very excited with the opportunity to taste them,” she says. A visit to Harrison’s and you depart brimming with new appreciation as well as recipes to try at home. “Opening up the farm is our way of sharing the experience that we have,” Sandy continues, “We really are just ourselves.” If you haven’t tasted a fresh chestnut you haven’t really tasted a chestnut at all. They’ve become so popular that they even sellout! And don’t forget to ask Sandy for her chestnut soup recipe.





































Image 1 of / 10 Caption Close Image 2 of 10 Image 3 of 10 Image 4 of 10 Image 5 of 10 Image 6 of 10 Image 7 of 10 Image 8 of 10 Image 9 of 10 Image 10 of 10 Meet the Farmers and Vintners at the Sierra Oro Farm Trail Passport Weekend 1 / 10 Back to Gallery

Hickman Family Vineyards



Like many Butte County winemakers, Tod and Alyse Hickman were drawn to the area from elsewhere, specifically winery rich Sonoma County. Having worked in the industry there the Hickmans were ready to jump into opening their own winery and chose the former Gold Rush town of Bangor. “[Working in Sonoma] afforded us insight and access to the production side of the wine world and before long we were cultivating our own ideas for a start-up winery,” recalls Tod. With their family’s help, the Hickmans produce a wide range of reds, a Chardonnay, and a Viognier, all excellent blends for a spring or summer’s day.

The vineyards often serve double duty in the summer as one of the county’s premier wedding venues and site, including the elaborate barrel room, for private parties. Tod and Alyse credit their industry peers with sharing so many insights about the business of winemaking and they are always eager to do the same with guests to their bucolic tasting room.





































Image 1 of / 10 Caption Close Image 2 of 10 Image 3 of 10 Image 4 of 10 Image 5 of 10 Image 6 of 10 Image 7 of 10 Image 8 of 10 Image 9 of 10 Image 10 of 10 Meet the Farmers and Vintners at the Sierra Oro Farm Trail Passport Weekend 1 / 10 Back to Gallery

Sohnrey Family Foods



One of the dozens of family farms and orchards, Sohnrey Family Foods has grown almonds, walnuts, prunes, and rice for five generations. You can meet members of the Sohnrey family and learn what it takes to maintain a legacy farm, an immersive narrative and undiscovered gem you can only discover on the SOFT. “It’s really rewarding because we work all year to raise a crop and you finally get to harvest it and see what you’ve done all year,” says Andrew Sohnrey, a 5t​h​ generation farmer. “We’ve always wanted our name on a product and go farm to table” says Greg Sohnrey, a 4t​h​ generation farmer who learned from his father and grandfather, who migrated here from Kansas in 1875.

Committed to conservation and quality, Sohnrey Family Foods exports their products worldwide, but their hearts remain firmly planted in Butte County. A visit to the Sohnrey Family Foods Gift Shop makes it clear that the family farm is thriving in Butte County.





































Image 1 of / 10 Caption Close Image 2 of 10 Image 3 of 10 Image 4 of 10 Image 5 of 10 Image 6 of 10 Image 7 of 10 Image 8 of 10 Image 9 of 10 Image 10 of 10 Meet the Farmers and Vintners at the Sierra Oro Farm Trail Passport Weekend 1 / 10 Back to Gallery

As you plan your Butte County SOFT tour, be sure to find a designated driver or book your rideshare of choice. And remember to share pics of your experience @sierraorofarmtrail using hashtag #FarmTrail.
