title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
'One of the Most Divisive Presidents': Bongino Rips Obama for Blasting Trump in Speech|https://www.foxnews.com|http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/09/08/barack-obama-rips-trump-gop-speech-dan-bongino-reacts-fox-friends|Trending,Judge Jeanine,Dan Bongino,Barack Obama,Brett Kavanaugh,Mueller Probe|2018-09-08|||Dan Bongino said Saturday on Fox & Friends that former President Barack Obama's speech, which blasted President Trump and the GOP, was "disgraceful."

Obama received the Paul H. Douglas Award for Ethics in Government at the University of Illinois on Friday, and the speech marked his return to the campaign trail in an effort to rally Democrats ahead of November's midterm elections.

The former president warned there are "dire" consequences to staying on the sidelines, adding that "powerful and privileged" people want to "keep us angry."

“It did not start with Donald Trump,” Obama said. “He is a symptom, not the cause. He’s just capitalizing on resentments that politicians have been fanning for years.”

Trump on 'Fox & Friends': If It Was Up to Me, We'd Shut Down Gov't Over Border Wall

Bongino blasted the former president, saying he used identity politics create division within the Democratic Party.

"Barack Obama was one of the most divisive presidents in American history," he said.

.@dbongino: “Barack Obama was one of the most divisive presidents in American history.” pic.twitter.com/GBBuUJdJaW — Fox News (@FoxNews) September 8, 2018

Obama said on Friday that Republicans have reversed course in the Trump era.

“What happened to the Republican Party?” he said. “Its central organizing principle in foreign policy was the fight against communism, and now they’re cozying up to the former head of the KBG.”

Bongino said that hardworking Americans are tired of being talked down to by "elitist goofballs" like Obama.

He referred to a quote in former White House staffer Ben Rhodes' book, "The World as It Is," in which Obama said he wondered whether his presidency was a decade or two too early for Americans.

"We were ready for Barack Obama. Barack Obama wasn't ready for America."

Watch more above.

Watters Calls Out Booker Over 'I Am Spartacus' Moment: 'I Think I Smell a Phony'

'I Thought You Were Against Subverting Democracy': Tucker Battles CA Dem on Calls to Oust the President

'Beneath the Dignity of the Senate': Scalise Rips Booker's 'Spectacle' at Kavanaugh Hearing
