title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Tucker Blasts Nike for Profiting From Kaepernick's 'Attacks on the United States'|https://www.foxnews.com|http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/09/04/tucker-carlson-blasts-nike-colin-kaepernick-just-do-it-ad-campaign-amid-anthem-protests|Colin Kaepernick,Trending,Mueller Probe,Judge Jeanine,nike,Brett Kavanaugh,National Anthem protests,NFL|2018-09-04|||Tucker Carlson slammed Nike for its announcement on Monday that Colin Kaepernick is the new face of the company’s “Just Do It” campaign.

Kaepernick, a former San Francisco 49ers quarterback who remains a free agent, started the trend of NFL players refusing to stand for the anthem in 2016 to protest racial inequality and police brutality.

Believe in something, even if it means sacrificing everything. #JustDoIt pic.twitter.com/SRWkMIDdaO — Colin Kaepernick (@Kaepernick7) September 3, 2018

There has been a huge backlash to Nike's decision to go into business with the former quarterback-turned-social-justice-activist, with many social media users posting videos and photos of them destroying their Nike-branded apparel.

On "Fox & Friends" on Tuesday, Tucker Carlson called out the Nike executives who are profiting from Kaepernick and "his attacks on the United States."

'We Should Never Denigrate Our Flag': Jim Brown Doubles Down on Anthem Stance, Trump Support

“This is an attack on the country,” Carlson stated, pointing out that Kaepernick is not protesting any specific lawmaker or policy.

"Sitting during the national anthem is a way of making a broad-based, generalized -- and therefore impossible to rebut -- attack against the country that made him and Nike rich," Carlson said.

He said it's a "real problem" when the most successful people in a society hate and resent the very society that made them successful.

"Here you have a boardroom of corporate executives deciding that they are going to profit from attacks on the country that made their company possible,” Carlson said. "That is a really ominous thing. We should be really worried about that."

Watch the "Fox & Friends" segment above, and don't miss "Tucker Carlson Tonight," weeknights at 8:00pm ET on Fox News Channel.

Former UFC Fighter, Iraq War Vet on NFL Anthem Protests: 'It's Not the Right Time'

Pavlich on NFL Anthem Protests: Owners, Goodell 'Don't Have Any Control'

Lou Holtz: Players 'Hurting the Future' by Kneeling for National Anthem Before NFL Games

LaVar Ball to NFL Protesters: Stand for the National Anthem or 'Get Out'
