title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
WATCH: Organizer Tries to Stop Charlie Kirk From Questioning Kavanaugh Protesters|https://www.foxnews.com|http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/09/06/organizer-tries-stop-charlie-kirk-questioning-kavanaugh-protesters|Judge Jeanine,Charlie Kirk,Mueller Probe,Trending,Brett Kavanaugh|2018-09-06|||Turning Point USA founder Charlie Kirk was confronted by a protest organizer as he interviewed demonstrators outside the Senate confirmation hearings for Brett Kavanaugh.

Speaking on "Fox & Friends" Thursday, Kirk said most of the protesters he encountered could not articulate why Kavanaugh poses a danger to the country.

"I'm just here," one person responded, while another man said "American rights are at stake" if Kavanaugh is confirmed to the Supreme Court.

What Do Californians Think About Their State's Sanctuary Policies? Tomi Lahren Finds Out...

Turning Point Offers Ocasio-Cortez $100,000 for Charity to Debate Candace Owens

What happens when you try & have civil discussions with anti-Kavanaugh protestors? Their organizers immediately try and kick you out and call the police Thankfully we still live in a country where you cannot arrest someone just because you don’t like their opinion Watch - RT! pic.twitter.com/Q05xLaCoD0 — Charlie Kirk (@charliekirk11) September 6, 2018

Kirk said some of the demonstrators had actually disrupted the hearing and viewed that as a "badge of honor." He characterized the protest as looking more like an "astroturf" event than genuine opposition.

Later, a protest organizer objected to Kirk filming people, telling him he would have to leave and notifying a Capitol police officer.

The officer, however, said he could not remove Kirk from the public area outside the U.S. Capitol.

"Your right to free speech doesn't trump his," the police officer told the woman.

Kirk said it shows how the left will try to silence anyone who disagrees with their point of view.

"Just asking questions from a very journalistic point of view triggered them so much," said Kirk, arguing that the "nonsense" happening on college campuses is spreading.

Watch the clips and full interview above.

WATCH: Ocasio-Cortez Supporters Stumped on How Democratic Socialism Would Be Funded

College Students React Negatively to Trump's SOTU ... Before It Even Happens

College Students Oppose Obama Remarks When Told They're From Trump
