source_url url tags meta_keywords publish_date authors summary text
|http://www.cnn.com/transcripts|



Return to Transcripts main page

CNN Transcripts for September 3, 2018

Note: This page is continually updated as new transcripts become available. If you cannot find a specific segment, check back later.|http://www.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/2018.09.03.html||2018-09-03||
|http://www.cnn.com/election|James A. Barnes is a member of the CNN Decision Desk and co-author of the 2018 Almanac of American Politics.

(CNN) Republicans were relieved when Debbie Lesko won a special election on April 24 to maintain GOP control of the Phoenix area congressional seat of former Rep. Trent Franks. Lesko's 52.4%-47.6% victory over Democrat Hiral Tipirneni — based on unofficial but near complete returns — was welcomed by Capitol Hill Republicans who were panicked after Democrat Conor Lamb won a House special election in March in Pennsylvania in a congressional district which, like Arizona's 8th Congressional District outside Phoenix, President Donald Trump carried handily in 2016. Both Franks and the Rep. Tim Murphy from the Pennsylvania district had resigned in scandal.

But an analysis of the special election returns from the 143 precincts that make up the congressional district in Arizona shows that Tipirneni performed better in many of the Republican-leaning precincts in the district, relative to results from the 2016 presidential election, than in its Democratic enclaves. This suggests that Tipirneni's message that Republicans are going to cut Social Security and Medicare to fill the yawning federal budget deficits exacerbated by the 2017 GOP tax cuts hit home with independent and even some GOP voters.

While many Democratic operatives have argued that the party's fortunes in the midterm elections in November will be determined by its ability to drive partisan Democrats to the polls -- making the midterms a so-called "base election"-- Tipirneni's performance suggests that a "persuasion" strategy with a message aimed at swing voters and disenchanted Republicans could also play dividends. Indeed, in GOP House seats that Hillary Clinton didn't win or even come to close carrying in 2016, a persuasion approach is probably critical.

We grouped precincts in Arizona's 8th Congressional District by the percentage of the major-party vote won by Hillary Clinton in the 2016 presidential election and compared that to how Tipirneni performed in those clusters of precincts in the 2018 House special election.

Where Clinton got less than 30% of the vote in 2016, Tipernini gained 11.1 percentage points. Where Clinton got more than 50% of the vote in 2016, Tipernini ganed less than 5 percentage points.

Read More|http://www.cnn.com/2018/04/30/politics/election-2018-results-arizona-8-special/index.html|politics,The hidden meaning of the Arizona special election - CNNPolitics|2018-04-30||Analysis James A. Barnes
|http://www.cnn.com/health|(CNN) If you're like many people, the more you drink, the more you eat.

Munching on a bag of Doritos while guzzling a beer or nibbling at cheese cubes with a glass of wine in hand may be pleasurable, but it can come with unwanted side effects, including increased bloat, calories and weight gain.

That much we may have already experienced firsthand. A more interesting question is: Why does alcohol give us the munchies in the first place?

One of the simplest explanations as to why we eat more when we drink is that alcohol lowers our inhibitions and can decrease our defenses when it comes to portion control and making healthy eating choices. With a drink in hand, you're more likely to grab handfuls of nuts, chips, bread or whatever is staring you in the face without really giving it a second thought.

"Studies show that people will consume more at meals when they're including alcohol or have been drinking before the meal," said Ginger Hultin, a registered dietitian and author of the blog Champagne Nutrition

Hultin, who is also a spokeswoman for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, said that in addition to lowering our defenses, there is evidence that alcohol can influence hormones tied to satiety, or feeling full. For example, alcohol may inhibit the effects of leptin -- a hormone that suppresses appetite -- and glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), a hormone that inhibits food intake, she explained.

There might be other mechanisms at play, too. Some research suggests that alcohol might stimulate nerve cells in the brain's hypothalamus that increase appetite. According to one study, neurons in the brain that are generally activated by actual starvation, causing an intense feeling of hunger, can be stimulated by alcohol

"Animal research shows that, independent of other factors, when alcohol stimulates this part of the brain, it can trigger a sharp increase in appetite, which can lead to overeating," Hultin said. "Instead of the body recognizing 'I just got a lot of calories, so I have fuel and I'm full,' the opposite occurs. Though calories have been ingested, the brain is triggering more food intake."

Alcohol can also lower blood sugar, which can cause us to crave sugar and carbs. "Drinking alcohol can impair the liver's ability to release the right amount of glycogen, or stored glucose, into the blood to keep blood glucose levels stable," Hultin said. People with diabetes are at even higher risk for low blood sugar levels when they drink, according to Hultin, particularly when consuming alcohol on an empty stomach.

But another challenge with alcohol -- which is different from drugs like pot -- is that alcohol itself is high in calories, with 7 per gram. That's more calories than you get per gram of protein or carbs, which have 4 calories per gram each.

A 5-ounce glass of wine might have only 120 or 125 calories, and a light beer even less, but mixers, juice, soda, syrups, cream and coconut all pack sugar and fat calories on top of alcohol, Hultin explained. "Margaritas and pina coladas are classically very high in calories, with some estimates pushing up towards 500 calories for one drink, depending on the size and how it's made."

Tips to curb alcohol munchies

Before you take your next sips of wine, beer or spirits, learn some helpful tips to curb alcohol munchies.

Drink with a balanced meal. "Include whole-grain, complex carbohydrates, healthy fat and protein so that your body is nourished and satiated from the start," Hultin said. This will also ensure that your "munchies" aren't actual hunger, reflecting the body's need for a meal.

Get CNN Health's weekly newsletter Sign up here to get The Results Are In with Dr. Sanjay Gupta every Tuesday from the CNN Health team.

Don't have unhealthy snacks lying around. "Chips, candy, pizza and other desserts are easy to grab if your appetite starts to rise as you're drinking," Hultin said. These calorie-dense foods can pack on pounds over time. If you're at a restaurant, ask the server to take the bread basket away.

Make healthier options more accessible. If you know that you will be tempted to eat when drinking, take out hummus with chopped veggies, fruit or air-popped popcorn to snack on.

Hydrate. "Alcohol is dehydrating, so make sure to sip on plain or sparkling water if you find yourself wanting to snack," Hultin said. This will not only save you calories from more alcohol, it will give your hands something to hold if you find yourself reaching for snacks when you know you're not actually hungry.|http://www.cnn.com/2018/08/17/health/why-alcohol-causes-munchies-food-drayer/index.html|health,Why does alcohol give you the munchies? - CNN|2018-08-17||Lisa Drayer
|http://www.cnn.com/opinions|John Donohue is an economist, lawyer and professor at Stanford Law School. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own. View more opinion articles on CNN.

(CNN) As the country reels from an unprecedented number of mass shootings in the past year, public support for prudent legislative action is about to slam into a jarring reality. Nearly every important state and local gun law is imperiled by the prospect of the elevation of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the US Supreme Court.

In a stunning triumph of what former conservative Republican Chief Justice Warren Burger once referred to as the NRA's "fraud on the American people," the US Supreme Court's 5-4 District of Columbia v. Heller decision in 2008 ignored text, history and tradition in disregarding the Second Amendment's reference to a "well-regulated militia." It held that the amendment should instead be read to grant a private right to have a handgun in the home.

The late Justice Antonin Scalia's majority opinion was deemed an incoherent snow job " by Reagan-appointed federal appeals court Judge Richard Posner. Fortunately, the lower courts have largely recognized that the decision should not be read expansively to impose a straitjacket on legislative efforts to deal with the serious US problem of gun violence -- unique among developed countries

For example, two Republican-appointed judges on the DC Court of Appeals ruled in 2011 that the Second Amendment was not an impediment to the District's ban on assault weapons and large capacity magazines, let alone its entirely sensible gun registration regime. But Kavanaugh disagreed, writing a dissent that embodied the worst features of the historical amnesia, misguided originalism and imprudent judicial decision making of Scalia's Heller decision.

Kavanaugh's wooden opinion argued that considerations of public safety could play no role in evaluating the contours of the Second Amendment. Instead, in deciding how to address the modern problem of military-grade weaponry turned on school children, churchgoers and concert attendees, we should look back to the beliefs of constitutional draftsmen writing a half century before the advent of the first police department in the United States, and well over 100 years before the first semi-automatic rifle was manufactured. The notion that those wise statesmen intended to bar widely endorsed legislative action to deal with this modern American problem 225 years later is simply ludicrous.

The FBI recently reported that the 30 active shooter incidents in 2017 set a US record for both the highest number and the greatest number killed and wounded. A substantial majority of Americans support stricter gun laws , and nearly everyone wants universal background checks. Since the Parkland shooting left 17 students and teachers dead and many injured, a handful of states have taken much-needed strides to address gun violence, and stories abound about the new energy that students are bringing to the legislative forum on this issue.

But if Kavanaugh becomes the newest Supreme Court justice, it may all be for naught. Working largely below the public's radar, the NRA has been suing every jurisdiction from Hawaii and California to Maryland and New Jersey to overturn restrictions on large-capacity magazines and assault weapons, as well as safe storage laws and restrictions on carrying guns in public.

Yet Kavanaugh could not distinguish between an impermissible total ban on handguns, which Scalia called the "quintessential" self-defense weapons, and desirable restrictions on assault weapons with large capacity magazines, which are one of the preferred choices of mass killers. Assault weapons must be freely available to the Adam Lanzas (killed 26 in Newtown, Connecticut in December 2012), Stephen Paddocks (killed 58 in Las Vegas in October 2017, and Omar Mateens (killed 49 in Orlando, Florida in June 2016) -- all law-abiding, until they unleashed their deadly weaponry on an unsuspecting public.

Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

According to Kavanaugh's dissent, state legislatures all around the country lose the ability to regulate weapons if they are not banned quickly enough to prevent them from being in "common use." This "common use" test defies common sense. The gun lobby has effectively promoted its modern weaponry and dominated some jurisdictions and politicians, as shown by its ability to even prevent Congress from having a vote on a universal background check system that 90% of all Americans (and a majority of NRA members ) supported. Kavanaugh doesn't explain how the NRA stranglehold on these jurisdictions and politicians could then deprive all states and localities from the capacity to craft "those wise restraints that make men free."|http://www.cnn.com/2018/09/05/opinions/kavanaugh-wont-keep-america-safe-donohue/index.html|opinions,Brett Kavanaugh won't keep Americans safe (Opinion) - CNN|2018-09-05||John J. Donohue
|http://www.cnn.com/videos|An anonymous senior administration official claimed to be part of a resistance inside President Donald Trump's White House, thwarting parts of the President's agenda, in a New York Times op-ed.|http://www.cnn.com/videos/politics/2018/09/05/senior-administration-official-trump-nyt-op-ed-lead-collins-vpx.cnn/video/playlists/top-news-videos/|politics,Senior admin official hits Trump in op-ed - CNN Video|2018-09-05||
|http://www.cnn.com/us|"These are extraordinary times. Dangerous times," Obama warned in an extraordinary indictment of the behavior of a successor to whom he handed power in January 2017 and who has torn at the conventions that restrain presidents ever since.

It was a revealing moment in an enthralling clash of philosophy, temperament and style that unfolded Friday between a current and former president who epitomize opposing currents in an epochal political moment and are now in direct conflict ahead of the midterm elections.

The campaign trail face-off between Obama and Trump also capped a consequential week that saw the awakening of the Washington establishment after John McCain's funeral turned into an indictment of Trumpism and in which Trump battled an enemy within his own administration.

Obama, ditching his self-imposed political exile, warned of a moment of unique national peril, in which demagogic forces -- aka Trump -- are undermining the structures of democratic government to build their own omnipotence.

"They start undermining norms that ensure accountability and try to change the rules to entrench their own power," Obama said in a major speech in Illinois.

"It shouldn't be Democratic or Republican to say that we don't pressure the attorney general or FBI to use the criminal justice system as a cudgel to punish our political opponents -- or to protect members of our own party from prosecution just because an election's coming up," he said.

At almost the same moment, aboard Air Force One, the current President told reporters he wanted Attorney General Jeff Sessions to hunt a senior official within his administration who sent the White House reeling with a devastating anonymous New York Times op-ed that branded him unfit for power.

"Here's criticism where you can't fight back. 'Cause you have somebody doing it anonymously," Trump said, after effectively ordered the criminal investigative functions of the state to purge an opponent who has not committed a crime but has merely exercised a First Amendment right.

It was far from the first time Trump has appeared to shun conventions designed to shield the instruments of justice from political interference. He has spent months lambasting the FBI and the Justice Department over the Russia investigation. Earlier this week he complained that Sessions should not have allowed two Republicans to be indicted over corruption allegations.

Friday's competing appearances were the latest intense intersection of two giant, idiosyncratic political opposites who are again waging a struggle for the political soul of their nation.

Ever since Trump made the birtherism conspiracy his bridge to politics from the tabloid life of a tycoon and real estate star, he and Obama have been locked in a mutually antagonistic embrace , as opposites in decorum and ideology.

That mirror image was on show Friday.

Opposing styles

Obama, serene and intellectual, chose the conventional medium for a politician, a long, reasoned, multi-layered speech, to frame a political problem -- the conditions that led to the rise of Trump -- and to give Democrats a battle plan to restore America's ailing democracy.

He bemoaned missing checks and balances in Washington, the indifference of Republicans to Trump's power grabs, the predominance of bullies, and walls being put up around America, and he diagnosed a "backlash from people who are genuinely, if wrongly, fearful of change."

In signature style, he called on young people to vote, campaign and fight for their democracy, and argued that despite everything there is a unifying American "common ground."

At times, he appeared to be renewing his own faith in a brand of politics that shot him to power from nowhere in 2008 but whose effectiveness has been called into question -- even by some more radical Democrats -- as Trump crushes his legacy and the GOP monopolizes power.

Trump, the king of the barbed tweet, who reinvented the way to win the White House, brawled on social media, sparred with reporters and in a stream-of-consciousness campaign speech of his own displayed his more gritty, authoritarian and aggressive political methodology

He mocked Obama's approach. "I watched it, but I fell asleep. I've found he's very good for sleeping," Trump said in Fargo, North Dakota, before reeling off a list of his administration's achievements and slamming America's foreign trade partners.

"I don't want to be taken advantage of by other countries in the world," he said.

The thrust of Obama's argument was that America is a great nation that has slumped into crisis because its core values are being trampled. Trump's -- in line with his strongman's instincts -- was that he inherited a humbled and disrespected country and he had already redeemed it.

He told his crowd that a strapping man had come up to him at his event with tears rolling from his eyes and said: "I want to thank you, Mr. President, for saving our country."

Same aim

JUST WATCHED Trump: I fell asleep during Obama speech Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: I fell asleep during Obama speech 01:32

In essence, Trump and Obama were trying to do the same thing -- electrify grass-roots voters and drive turnout in midterm elections that both view as the most crucial for decades and that will be crucial to the fate of the Trump presidency.

Obama is a singular political figure. While he won two impressive general election victories, he found it more difficult to bestow his appeal to Democrats in midterm elections, when he was not on the ballot. It may be even more difficult to do so when he is out of power.

Trump is also unique, and it is not clear whether he will be any more successful in transferring his magnetic appeal with the grass roots to Republican candidates in midterm polls.

Obama found out how a presidency can be crippled by the loss of the House of Representatives. Unless Trump can buck history, he may experience an even more painful defeat, given the multiple political and legal storms already battering his White House.

Their combat on Friday opened up intriguing new possibilities for the fall campaign, and risks for both.

Obama had stayed out of the spotlight for the last 19 months for a reason, apart from honoring the tradition that presidents don't usually criticize their predecessors. He knows that he has now given Trump the political target he has often lacked during his presidency.

Obama, who is reviled by many Trump voters, could become an organizing catalyst for grass-roots Republicans as well as Democrats.

The more President @BarackObama speaks about the 'good ole years' of his presidency, the more likely President @realDonaldTrump is to get re-elected.



In fact, the best explanation of President Trump's victory are the "results" of the Obama Presidency! — Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) September 7, 2018

South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham spotted the opening for Republicans and for Trump in 2020, by tweeting: "The more President @BarackObama speaks about the 'good ole years' of his presidency, the more likely President @realDonaldTrump is to get re-elected."

On the other hand, many Democrats and others who remember Obama's presidency and conduct in the White House fondly have often wondered why he has not been more vocal in taking on Trump. There is still no Democrat with the capacity to frame a political problem, distill a message and deliver it as well as Obama.

Still, his re-emergence was not universally welcomed by serving Democratic lawmakers.

Delaware Sen. Chris Coons told CNN's Wolf Blitzer he was worried that the midterms could become fixated on personalities rather than the needs and concerns of voters.

"We have got a President who is really adept about making the day about him, day in and day out. My concern here is President Obama may be simply feeding that dynamic where it is all about President Trump," he said.

But one thing is clear: With Obama and Trump going at it, the fall campaign just got a lot more interesting.|http://www.cnn.com/2018/09/07/politics/barack-obama-donald-trump-america/index.html|politics,Obama and Trump fight for America's soul - CNNPolitics|2018-09-07||Analysis Stephen Collinson
|http://www.cnn.com/opinions|David A. Andelman, visiting scholar at the Center on National Security at Fordham Law School and director of its Red Lines Project, is a contributor to CNN, where his columns won the Deadline Club Award for Best Opinion Writing. Author of "A Shattered Peace: Versailles 1919 and the Price We Pay Today," he was formerly a foreign correspondent for The New York Times and CBS News in Asia and Europe. Follow him on Twitter @DavidAndelman. The views expressed in this commentary are his own.

(CNN) According to The Washington Post, Barack Obama offered to Donald Trump in their only Oval Office meeting a warning about North Korea as a global threat. The problem is that Trump failed to grasp just what that might mean.

Or he forgot about it entirely.

According to an excerpt in Bob Woodward's new book, "Fear," published in the Washington Post, at a National Security Council meeting on January 19, 2017, when Trump was told about the special intelligence operation that allowed the US to detect a North Korean missile launch in seven seconds, Woodward reported that Trump asked why the government was spending any resources on this region at all.

"We're doing this in order to prevent World War III," Defense Secretary Jim Mattis reportedly replied thinly.

Such an existential threat and a host of other real or only narrowly averted catastrophic errors are now, with the first taste of Woodward's book, coming into sharp focus. But for many world leaders, they long ago began seeking ways to work around the vast gulf between Trump fantasies and hard realities.

Indeed, the incendiary op-ed the New York Times attributed to an anonymous senior administration official quickly upstaged even the Woodward book late on Wednesday, suggested the most unsettling thing is that "President Trump shows a preference for autocrats and dictators...and displays little genuine appreciation for the ties that bind us to allied, like-minded nations."

This can hardly be lost on most western leaders and diplomats, any who seek to reach some acceptable, civilized condominium with Trump and his White House.

The Woodward book will only confirm to most the wisdom of their actions, and the urgency to complete these workarounds before everything comes unglued, as the writer of the anonymous op-ed so eloquently suggests.

So let's take a quick tour of the highlights from the Woodward book and the horrors it suggests:

North Korea

One month into his presidency, as Woodward reports in the Post excerpt, Trump asked General Joseph Dunford, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, for a plan for a preemptive military strike on North Korea, which badly shook the ordinarily unflappable officer. Not long afterwards, Trump accelerated the confrontation with his speech before the United Nations, labeling leader Kim Jong Un "Little Rocket Man."

Yet barely six months later, a South Korean delegation walked into the Oval Office with a surprise letter from Kim inviting Trump to a summit meeting that would eventually be held in Singapore. This invitation was the culmination of a series of unprecedented discussions that took place without any American input.

JUST WATCHED Kim Jong Un claims 'unwavering trust' in Trump Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Kim Jong Un claims 'unwavering trust' in Trump 01:08

Even so, the South Koreans wanted to be sure to be on hand as Trump sought to pull off a delicate operation that the American President seemed to consider as little more than another episode of "The Apprentice."

South Korean President Moon Jae-in, who was instrumental in launching the process, wanted a place at the table at the Singapore summit. He was right to fight for one, since Trump told Fox News airily In November 2017, "I'm the only one that matters."

Now, most unsettling to the world and especially to the leadership in Seoul, the North Korean question seems to be on the verge of returning to where it all began -- mano à mano between Trump and Kim. Perhaps all that could preserve peace on the Korean Peninsula would be a South Korean-brokered peace treaty bringing an end, after six decades, to the war between North and South -- and convincing Trump that was his idea in the first place.

Syria

According to the Post's Woodward book excerpt, Trump wanted to deal with Syria once and for all. Following Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad's chemical weapons attack on a rebel-held town, Trump phoned Mattis and shouted, "Let's f***ing kill him! Let's kill the f***ing lot of them." Mattis hung up the phone and told a senior staffer, "We're not going to do any of that. We're going to be much more measured." Of course, Trump denied his rant and Mattis has issued a statement denying quotes attributed to him.

"It felt like we were walking along the edge of the cliff perpetually," Woodward quotes Trump's former staff secretary Rob Porter as saying. "Other times, we would fall over the edge, and an action would be taken." In a note to the readers of his book, Woodward has said that where he attributes exact quotations, thoughts or conclusions to named people, the information may come from that person directly or it may come from a "colleague with direct knowledge, from meeting notes, or from diaries, files, or government or personal documents."

JUST WATCHED Airstrikes hammer rebel stronghold in Idlib Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Airstrikes hammer rebel stronghold in Idlib 03:05

Now, with the Syrian civil war entering what is perhaps its final act, the West and the Arab world have chosen simply to leave Trump out. Certainly, Trump touched off the process by announcing last month he'd be pulling back $230 million in relief funds and persuaded other countries in the region to pony up $300 million instead, according to the State Department -- abrogating America's hard-won leadership position in the Middle East.

At the same time, Russia, Iran and Turkey were meeting to discuss how to respond to the persistence of various insurgent groups in Syria, with hardly a nod to the Trump administration.

Iran

Perhaps the most toxic zone on the planet is Iran, particularly with the next round of Trump-ordered sanctions to go into effect on November 4.

No voice of reason has succeeded in introducing itself into the Oval Office, and with Trump determined to torpedo the pact, European signatories to the nuclear treaty are simply finding their own way around any American sanctions to keep the pact alive.

European leaders are examining creation of a replacement for the electronic money transfer SWIFT, regulated and dominated by American institutions and banks, that would allow European businesses and banks to continue operating in Iran.

But the issue goes far beyond Iran and western businesses. "Europe can no longer rely on the United States for its security," French President Emmanuel Macron said last month.

Macron would clearly like to create a European security force that would march to its own drummer. And while no European leader has gone so far as to suggest an open break with Trump, many of the themes raised in the Woodward book will only provide ammunition for those advocating a more outward break.

Afghanistan

Trump clearly has little patience with the pace of what appears to be an endless war in Afghanistan. Woodward's Post excerpt describes a July 2017 National Security Council meeting where Trump spent 25 minutes complaining to his generals that the United States was doing nothing but losing there.

"The soldiers on the ground could run things much better than you," Trump reportedly told them , according to the Post's Woodward excerpt. "They could do a much better job. I don't know what the hell we're doing." And he continued, "How many more deaths? How many more lost limbs? How much longer are we going to be there?"

Yet Trump has done little to improve matters. Rather than try to persuade the new leadership in Pakistan to ease off their support of the Taliban and Haqqani fighters, he has simply ordered a cutoff of an additional $300 million in aid to Pakistan. (The US has accused Pakistan of sponsoring the Taliban, but Pakistan has denied it supports these groups.)

NATO, which has maintained a multi-national force in Afghanistan, may be the only viable bulwark against Taliban expansion if Trump continues to urge a total withdrawal of US troops.

Egypt

And then there's Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi. "Donald, I'm worried about this investigation," the Egyptian leader said, according to Woodward's book excerpt, after Trump had called seeking the release of an imprisoned American charity worker. "Are you going to be around?" Trump called the comment "like a kick in the nuts," as he told his lawyer John Dowd , according to the Washington Post's reporting on Woodward's book.

But like so many other world leaders, Sisi was no doubt simply wondering how long a leash he might have to work his will in counterpoint to any Trump policy, or whim.

All of this, of course, is only the vaguest outline of potentially catastrophic outcomes in virtually every part of the world. There are conflicts across the African continent, in Yemen, the South China Sea, and vast economic dislocations from the trade war that Trump seems determined to fight to the bitter end.

Diplomatic imagination has rarely been as essential as it is today.|http://www.cnn.com/2018/09/06/opinions/bob-woodward-trump-foreign-policy-opinion-intl/index.html|opinions,Bob Woodward reminds us that Trump's foreign policy is erratic and dangerous - CNN|2018-09-06||David A. Andelman
|http://www.cnn.com/europe|(CNN) — Aircraft manufacturers have produced some magnificent planes throughout aviation's history, and while many have ruled the skies, some have barely left the ground.

In fact, there have been a number of fascinating aviation projects that were canceled for political, financial and technical reasons. On some occasions, designers just came up against the inexorable march of technological advancement, having built the wrong plane for the times.

Going back almost 70 years, here are four prototypes that could have been remarkable rides and one future concept that may change the face of long-distance travel entirely.

1. Avro Canada Jetliner (1949)

The Avro Canada Jetliner received interest from aviation magnate Howard Hughes. Kenneth I Swartz Collection

The first jet-powered passenger plane to fly in North America wasn't a Boeing from Seattle, or a Douglas Aircraft Company jet from Long Beach.

It was the Avro Canada C-102 Jetliner, from Toronto's Malton Airport, in August 1949, and it could have given Canada's aviation industry a long head start in the race to bring jet travel to airline passengers.

The Jetliner was developed by Avro Canada for Trans-Canada Air Lines (TCA), and had a top speed of 500 mph (800 kph), carrying about 50 passengers for 400- to 500-mile flights.

However, TCA lost interest in the Jetliner when the airline's analysis showed that the production version of the plane wouldn't meet its operational requirements.

During its flight test program, the Jetliner flew for more than 400 hours, including a flight carrying the world's first jet airmail from Toronto to New York, in April 1950.

Related content Step back to the 1960s in New York's retro TWA Lounge

Reclusive aviator Howard Hughes also showed interest in the plane, hoping to add the jet to the fleet at his airline, Trans World Airlines (TWA). Avro Canada flew the Jetliner to Culver City, California, where Hughes flew the C-102. But in the early 1950s, Avro Canada was focused on military aircraft, and the Jetliner program languished.

The prototype was eventually broken up at the end of 1956. Only the plane's cockpit section was saved, now part of the Canada Aviation and Space Museum's collection in Ottawa.

"The Jetliner was ahead of its time, but the design was compromised when Avro Canada couldn't get the original engines it desired," Ken Swartz, a noted Toronto-based aviation historian, tells CNN Travel.

2. Bristol Brabazon (1949)

The curvaceous Bristol Brabazon was a plane that nobody wanted, designed by a British committee for an outdated era.

The Brabazon was a monster, over 175 feet long (54 meters) with a 230 foot (70 meter) wingspan. It was powered -- or more accurately, underpowered -- by eight huge piston engines that were embedded in the wings, driving eight propellers.

With a double-deck fuselage that rivaled the size of today's 500-plus passenger Airbus A380 megajet, the Brabazon was designed to carry just 100 passengers in luxurious style, with private cabins, a bar, and even a movie theater.

The Bristol Brabazon was designed to fly between the UK and the US. Topical Press Agency / Getty Images

When the prototype first flew in September 1949, it was already clear that airlines didn't want airborne ocean liners, but needed efficient, profitable aircraft. The Brabazon didn't get a single airline order, and the program was canceled in 1953. The prototype was scrapped, along with an uncompleted, turboprop-powered Mark II airframe.

Bristol would go on to produce the successful Britannia turboprop airliner, which saw service with carriers including BOAC and Canadian Pacific Air Lines.

3. Saunders-Roe Princess (1952)

Saunders-Roe Princess -- the largest all-metal flying boat ever built. From Ron Dupas Collection / 1000aircraftphotos.com

The Saunders-Roe SR.45 Princess was the world's largest all-metal flying boat, developed long before jet passenger planes ruled the skies.

This British creation was the ultimate in seaborne planes, following on the legacy of the iconic Pan American World Airways Boeing Clippers.

With a wingspan rivaling an A350's, the Princess first flew in August 1952. Powered by ten turboprop engines, its passengers would have flown in luxurious, pressurized comfort.

Related content 14 best aviation museums around the world

But the Princess would never welcome airline passengers into its double-deck cabin.

The plane's only customer, the British Overseas Airways Corporation (BOAC), had intended to fly the Princess on its prestigious London to New York route. However, by the time the prototype first took to the air, BOAC had already decided that the Age of the Flying Boat was soon to be replaced by the Jet Age, and withdrew its support of the Princess.

The Princess program was eventually canceled by the UK government, and the sole flying prototype and two mid-construction airframes were scrapped.

4. Fairchild Dornier 728JET (2002)

The Fairchild Dornier 728JET program ended when the company went into insolvency. JOERG KOCH / AFP / Getty Images

When the prototype Fairchild Dornier 728JET was rolled out in March 2002, the 70-seat regional jet had more than 100 firm orders.

The first flight of the 728JET was planned for the summer of 2002, but its US-German manufacturer Fairchild Dornier GmbH filed for insolvency just two weeks after the first test aircraft was debuted.

Given the uncertainty of the program, the plane's major customers canceled orders, and although a new company was formed to take the 728JET into production, that effort failed.

The 728JET had been the lead design for a family of aircraft with greater range and passenger capacity, along with a corporate jet version.

It would likely have been competitive with Embraer's and Bombardier's regional airliner if things had gone differently.

5. SpaceX BFR

Elon Musk and his team at SpaceX certainly think big.

With a string of successful launches and landings of its reusable Falcon 9 rocket booster, SpaceX is revolutionizing the space launch sector. Last year, SpaceX announced its plan to create an Interplanetary Transport System (ITS), with the ambitious goal of enabling human colonization of Mars.

Elon Musk reveals a computer-generated image of the upcoming SpaceX BFR rocket. PETER PARKS /AFP / Getty Images

The cornerstone technology was an immense launch vehicle that could carry as much as 600 tons into Earth's orbit -- about four times the payload of a wide-body cargo jet.

In September, Musk revealed an updated, smaller-but-still-massive ITS design, dubbed the BFR -- Big Falcon Rocket -- by SpaceX insiders.

Although the BFR currently only lives as a computer design and in a compelling animation, it could bring a disruptive change to long-distance travel on Earth.

Passengers could be whisked from New York to Shanghai in 39 minutes, London to Dubai in 29 minutes and Los Angeles to Johannesburg in 50 minutes.

With most long-distance trips under 30 minutes, "the BFR will be capable of taking people from any city to any other city on Earth in under one hour," promises SpaceX.|http://www.cnn.com/travel/article/prototype-planes/index.html|travel,Prototype planes: Awesome aircraft from 1949 to 2017 - CNN|2017-11-06||
|http://www.cnn.com/opinions|RaVal Davis is an entertainment writer, actress and advocate for body positivity. She is also the host of BET's "Don't Touch My Hair" talk show, a topical series that addresses the concerns of black women. Follow her on Instagram and Twitter @RaValDavis The opinions expressed in this commentary are her own. View more opinion articles on CNN.

(CNN) Geoffrey Owens isn't quite a household name, but he has been trending this week for something rather ordinary: a hard day's work.

Ironically, it was this Labor Day weekend when a story, job-shaming Owens -- best known for his role as son-in-law Elvin on "The Cosby Show"—went viral. Twenty-six years after "The Cosby Show," the actor made headlines after a New Jersey shopper took photos of Owens in a Trader Joe's uniform bagging groceries at the checkout line and Fox News picked up the story, which initially was reported by the Daily Mail.

RaVal Davis

That's when it got crazy -- the social media shaming, the backlash, the criticism, then the criticism of the criticism, the support of his peers and a much larger conversation around classism and how we value and devalue labor and laborers.

As a woman who, after over a decade, left a corporate career feeling completely unfulfilled, I can tell you first hand a "good job" has little to do with how much you make. The radical part of Owens' story, however, is that people think it's at all shocking for an actor to be working odd jobs between gigs and that it in any way makes him lesser. In March of 2014, the National Endowment for the Arts released a study noting that at least 271,000 artists held second jobs.

I'm an up-and-coming actress, and I've done temp work. I've worked as a front desk attendant at a spa, a journalist, a video producer and a digital marketing strategist since leaving my corporate career to become an actor and host. Trying to do what you love and still pay the rent isn't easy. I'll also admit that going from an executive at a major nationally-traded company to waking up in the early hours of the morning to open a gym has definitely caused me to doubt my self worth on more than one occasion. Here I am, the same person, but I've also witnessed former associates treat me differently after my career change.|http://www.cnn.com/2018/09/06/opinions/geoffrey-owens-actor-jobs-davis/index.html|opinions,The most radical part of Geoffrey Owens' day job (opinion)  - CNN|2018-09-06|The Haves and the Have Nots|Raval Davis
