title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
5 FAQs About Immunotherapy for Renal Cell Carcinoma|http://cnn.com/health|https://healthguides.cnn.com/advances-in-immunotherapy/5-faqs-about-immunotherapy-for-renal-cell-carcinoma?did=t1_rss7||2017-01-06|Jennifer L.W. Fink Rn||5 FAQs About Immunotherapy for Renal Cell Carcinoma By Jennifer L.W. Fink RN, BSN

Was this helpful? ( 34 )

Kidney cancer is one of the 10 most common cancers in both men and women–and the most common type of kidney cancer is called renal cell carcinoma. If caught and treated early, the prognosis is good. But until recently, doctors had few good options to offer patients whose cancer spread despite treatment.

All that is changing. In recent years, a new class of immunotherapy drugs, “checkpoint inhibitors,” was approved to treat certain types of skin and lung cancer. Since then, those drugs have shown promise fighting a lot of different cancers, including renal cell carcinoma.

William C. Lloyd III, MD, FACS Medical Reviewers: 2018 Healthgrades Operating Company, Inc. All rights reserved. May not be reproduced or reprinted without permission from Healthgrades Operating Company, Inc. Use of this information is governed by the Healthgrades User Agreement.

View transcript Dr. Arena: What immunotherapy is doing is unleashing the dogs. Dr. Sacher: Immunotherapy works by helping your body's own immune system recognize and attack cancer cells. Dr. Arena: It's allowing your own body to take charge. Dr. Sacher: Your body's own immune system, as part of its natural function, recognizes abnormal cells and attempts to get rid of them. In a patient that has cancer, we frequently would see that their own immune cells were standing by and not really attacking cancer cells, even though cancer cells are the most abnormal cells you could find in someone's body. That, for a long time, really puzzled oncologists. Dr. Markman: Why is it that these cells are not helping to kill the cancer? They're there, but they're not doing anything. Well, perhaps it's not that the immune system isn't ready to go. It's not that the cells aren't there, but somehow they're blocked from working. Dr. Sacher: PD-L1 is a protein that is normally expressed on your body's cells in order to reduce inflammation, essentially a signal that your body's normal cells can use in order to say, "I'm a normal cell. Don't attack me." Cancer cells can co-opt that mechanism by expressing extremely high levels of that protein. Dr. Arena: And what it does is that these ligands will attach onto the activated killer T-cell as if it was a lock-and-key mechanism and turns off the motor. It stuns them. Dr. Sacher: Essentially, taking a normal mechanism that your body uses to regulate inflammation and use it as a shield against an anti-tumor immune response. Dr. Markman: The observation led to the development of a group of very exciting drugs known as checkpoint inhibitors. Dr. Arena: It almost sounds like something out of "Star Wars." It blocks that PD-L1 and PD-L2 from attaching into the activated T-cell, almost like sealing wax that would go over the key holder, let's say in your ignition of your car, so that your key could not get into that ignition key holder. Dr. Sacher: And allowing your body's own white blood cells to recognize, attack and ideally, eliminate cancer cells. So, they really serve to unmask a tumor and allow your body's immune cells to recognize it. Dr. Arena: It's saying, "Hey, listen. We have a foreign body in our system. We are going to be on the attack." Immunotherapy is much more subtle. It's allowing your own body to take charge. That is a totally new game. That is bringing everything into overtime.

Here’s what you need to know about immunotherapy and renal cell carcinoma.

1. What is immunotherapy?

Immunotherapy, put simply, enables the immune system to attack cancer cells. When you get a cold, your body’s immune system attacks (and eventually destroys) the foreign germs that are causing your cough and sniffles. That doesn’t happen when a person develops cancer, because cancer cells are masters of disguise; they use special proteins to convince the immune system that they are normal parts of the body, so the body’s natural defenses leave them alone.

Immunotherapy “unmasks” the cancer cells, so the body can attack and destroy them.

2. Has immunotherapy been used to treat advanced renal cell carcinoma in the past?

Two types of immunotherapies, called interleukin-2 and interferon-alpha, are man-made proteins that stimulate the immune system. Doctors have used them to treat renal cell carcinoma for at least the last decade, but the drugs don’t help everyone. Only about 10 to 20% of those treated see their cancers shrink, and only some of those people experience remission.

These drugs have some serious side effects too, including fluid buildup in the lungs, kidney damage, heart attacks and intestinal bleeding, so they can only be given to people who are healthy enough to withstand the side effects.

Now that new types of immunotherapies are emerging, interleukin-2 and interferon-alpha are being used less frequently.

3. How do “checkpoint inhibitors” treat renal cell carcinoma?

“Checkpoint inhibitors” essentially cancel the off-switch that cancer cells use to shut down the immune system, so the body can begin attacking the cancer. In November 2015, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved nivolumab (Opdivo), a checkpoint inhibitor, to treat advanced renal cell carcinoma.

Right now, the drug is used to treat people whose cancer has gotten worse despite treatment with other medications. Unlike previous immunotherapy treatments, nivolumab is well-tolerated by most people. The most common side effects include fatigue, nausea, cough, itching, rash, loss of appetite, joint pain, constipation and diarrhea.

Nivolumab is given by intravenous (IV) infusion, usually every two weeks.

4. Does immunotherapy help people live longer with renal cell carcinoma?

In a head-to-head study that compared nivolumab with everolimus, a medication that is often used to treat people whose kidney cancer has progressed despite treatment, the patients who received the nivolumab lived more than five months longer than patients treated with the other medication. More people responded to immunotherapy treatment too; just over 21% of patients who received nivolumab responded, compared to fewer than 4% of those who received everolimus. Immunotherapy also seems to have a longer-lasting impact. The average sustained response–the amount of time the cancer remained under control–was almost two years for patients who received immunotherapy, versus just over a year for those who responded to everolimus.
