source_url url tags meta_keywords publish_date authors summary text
http://www.cnn.com/opinions|http://www.cnn.com/2018/09/06/opinions/why-im-staying-in-the-church-opinion-obrien/index.html||opinions,Why I'm staying in the church - CNN|2018-09-06|The Rev. Kevin O'Brien||The Rev. Kevin O'Brien, S.J., is a Jesuit priest and dean of the Jesuit School of Theology of Santa Clara University in California. He formerly served as vice president for Mission and Ministry at Georgetown University in Washington. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own; view more opinion at CNN.

(CNN) This week, our students begin class. Among the millions of young adults in universities right now, they are a unique bunch.

Kevin O'Brien

They come to our graduate school to study theology and ministry in preparation for a career serving in the Catholic Church. Some will be ordained as priests. Others will be commissioned for service as lay ministers. They will work together in schools, universities, parishes, retreat centers, hospitals and prisons. Yet they study, pray and serve in a church riddled again by scandal. As we reckon with recent revelations of sexual abuse and abuse of power in the church, I struggle for words to welcome them.

Sadly, we've been through this before. But there is something different now. Partly because of the #MeToo movement, we want to do more than punish sexual offenders and establish rigorous prevention programs. We rightly insist on confronting a culture of clericalism and privilege that enables abusive exercise of authority. We seek lasting structural reform, which includes greater transparency and accountability and more meaningful participation of lay people in church governance.

In my two decades as a Jesuit, I have counseled many people scandalized by past revelations of abuse and frustrated by the insensitivity or arrogance of church leaders and ministers. Prayerfully, thoughtfully and as a matter of conscience, some decided to leave the church lest they lose their faith. Others decided to stay. They wanted to help repair the church from the bottom up.

Right now, there are many Catholics caught between these two alternatives. Distasteful infighting between traditionalists and progressives and scapegoating gay and lesbian Catholics for the crisis alienate even more those stuck in the middle. In this environment, what do I say to a class of talented women and men who desire to serve in a church that has disappointed or hurt them so profoundly?

Read More
