title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Fresno's Dowling Aaron joining with Sacramento law firm|https://thebusinessjournal.com|https://thebusinessjournal.com/fresnos-dowling-aaron-joining-with-sacramento-law-firm/|THE BUSINESS JOURNAL STAFF|2018-09-06|||Fresno law firm Dowling Aaron has joined forces with Sacramento firm Saqui Law Group, with a full merger planned in 2019. Photo via Dowling Aaron website



Written by THE BUSINESS JOURNAL STAFF published on September 6, 2018 - 12:45 PM

Share this:

Fresno law firm Dowling Aaron Inc. has joined forces with a Sacramento-area firm, “bringing together two respected firms committed to serving agricultural business interests through California and the West,” according to a news release.

The Saqui Law Group PC has joined Dowling Aaron as “of counsel,” with a full merger of the two firms set for next year, according to the release.

Details of the merger are being finalized, but it should be complete by Jan. 1, 2019, said Leigh Burnside, president of Dowling Aaron. As part of the “of counsel” partnership, the law firms will work together on projects and assist each other with court cases and client services.

“The Saqui Law Group possesses one of the nation’s best Labor and Employment practices, which is a tremendous addition to our broad range of legal services,” said Richard Aaron, chairman of the board of Dowling Aaron. He added, “The goal for this new association is to connect our clients with some of the best legal experts in a variety of practice areas such as water, labor, employment, tax and estate planning, and provide superior service and expertise within one firm.”

The Saqui Law Group was established in 2007 to represent California growers, packers and shippers with their labor needs. Over the years, the law firm has grown to represent clients throughout the nation offering expertise in labor and employment law.

“I am excited that our firm will be joining the team at Dowling Aaron. This is the natural progression for us given the similarities of our firms, our clients and our approach to business,” said Michael Saqui, founder of The Saqui Law Group. He added, “This will establish us as the premier firm in the West for agriculture and other key industries.”

“We look forward to expanding our presence in the labor and employment market here in California,” Burnside said. “Michael [Saqui] and his team are great attorneys and we look forward to working with them.”

Dowling Aaron is a full-service law firm in central California representing the diverse interests of its client base. Like The Saqui Law Group, Dowling Aaron has developed a unique expertise in the areas of agribusiness and agricultural litigation representing farmers, growers, packers, shippers, dairies, wineries, cooperatives, investors, lenders, processors, insurance providers and others involved in the food production industry.

Dowling Aaron will maintain offices in Fresno, Bakersfield, Visalia, Salinas and Sacramento.
