title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Madera Community Hospital launches chaplaincy program|http://thebusinessjournal.com/news|https://thebusinessjournal.com/madera-community-hospital-launches-chaplaincy-program/||2018-09-07|||published on September 7, 2018 - 11:47 AM

Written by The Business Journal Staff

Share this:

Madera Community Hospital, with support from the Madera Ministerial Association and community faith leaders, has announced the formation of its Volunteer Chaplaincy Care program. The intended result of this program will be to provide 24-hour spiritual support to patients and their families, according to a press release from the hospital

“Effective spiritual care is a standard of practice contributing to the well-being of both the patient and their family,” said Madera Community CEO Karen Paolinelli in the release. “The volunteer chaplaincy program expands our clinical team’s resources and aligns with providing patient-centered care.”

The hospital is encouraging chaplains from all faiths to join their program. Joyce Lane, vice president of the Madera Ministerial Association, said she envisions the chaplains becoming reliable members of the health care team at the hospital.

“The Volunteer Chaplaincy Care Program will provide a network of spiritual leaders from all faiths to provide comfort to patients, families and to the physicians and staff during times of crisis,” Lane said.

The program will aim at four main areas of service:

-Providing support, comfort and understanding for an individual or group going through a time of crisis.

-Helping others to find solutions to life’s problems and questions.

-Healing individuals in finding wellness or wholeness from injury or disease (spiritually and emotionally).

-Helping people to reconcile broken relationships in their faith, with others and in their sense of what brings them meaning.

Credentialed spiritual leaders interested in volunteering can obtain the application for service at www.MaderaHospital.org/Volunteer. Applications will be reviewed and determined eligible to attend the Volunteer Chaplaincy Care training scheduled for Saturday, Sep. 22. Successful completion of the training and required hospital clearance are mandatory prior to service.

For more information, contact volunteer liaison Laura Maciel, 559-675-2881, or email Wecare@MaderaHospital.org.
