title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Scott Wagner to Gov. Tom Wolf: 'I'm going to stomp all over your face with golf spikes'|http://www.newrepublic.com/minutes|https://www.pennlive.com/capitol-notebook/2018/10/scott_wagner_to_wolf_im_going.html|Clergy Sex Abuse,Cool Spacess,John Micek's Morning Coffee|2018-10-12|John L. Micek,Jmicek Pennlive.Com||In a bizarre turn, Republican governor candidate Scott Wagner threatened to "stomp all over" Gov. Tom Wolf's "face with golf spikes" as his temper boiled over about attack commercials posted by the Democratic incumbent campaign.

Wagner, of York County, made his remarks in a video posted to his campaign's official Facebook page on Friday. By midday, the video had been viewed more than 4,000 times and became a subject of intense discussion on Twitter.

Tensions between the two camps have escalated as the race moves into its final three weeks. Wagner, who trails Wolf by double-digits in most public polls, has called for additional debates between himself and Wolf. Wolf has refused.

"You know what's interesting? You don't want to do town hall meetings. You don't want to do debates," Wagner says in the video. "Your campaign people said I raised the white flag?

"Well, Governor Wolf, let me tell you what, between now and Nov. 6, you better put a catcher's mask on your face, because I'm going to stomp all over your face with golf spikes. Because I'm going to win this for the state of Pennsylvania. And we're throwing you out of office. Because I'm sick and tired of your negative ads. Governor Wolf, I am bound and determined, I am going to vote you out of office."

In an email, Wagner's spokesman, Andrew Romeo, said the Republican nominee's remarks "were not to be taken literally."

"He wanted them to be a metaphor for how he will approach the final stretch of the campaign. Tom Wolf has spent the entire race hiding behind false and negative attack ads like a coward instead of debating in front of the people of Pennsylvania and Scott will spend the last month of the race making it clear to voters why they should not give him a second term," Romeo said.

Beth Melena, Wolf's campaign spokeswoman, said she wanted to know "if Wagner was channeling John Wayne, Clint Eastwood or Rambo in his latest unhinged rant."

Wagner made his remarks standing in front of a billboard he claimed was posted by Wolf and "his Democrat cronies" that highlighted Wagner's past legal actions against Penn Waste customers who had failed to pay their bills.

"Hey Governor, I don't know if you know this or not, but when you render a service, you want to get paid for that service," he said. "Hey Governor Wolf, did you ever have a customer not pay you when you were such a sharp business guy?"

Wagner continued, saying, "Hey, you know what Governor Wolf? The people of Pennsylvania are tired of your lies," pointing to a recent Wolf campaign advertisement. Wagner continues, attacking Wolf's business acumen.

"You're the small business governor?" Wagner scoffs. "I tell you, I want to puke when I see those ads."

Wagner later points to a pile of paychecks next to him, saying, "Today is Friday. This is what 100 paychecks look like. There are six bundles of these paychecks that we issued today."

The general election is Nov. 6.
