title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
The Trail of Clues in the Disappearance of Jamal Khashoggi|http://www.newrepublic.com/minutes|https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/10/09/world/middleeast/jamal-khashoggi-timeline.html||2018-10-09|Anjali Singhvi,Christiaan Triebert,Malachy Browne,Carlotta Gall||Jamal Khashoggi, a prominent Saudi journalist and dissident, remains missing a week after he seemed to disappear inside the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul.

Mr. Khashoggi’s fiancée and friends fear he has been either kidnapped or killed. Turkish investigators have concluded that he is dead. The Saudi government maintains that he left the consulate on Oct. 2 and is not in their custody.

Here is what we know about the details of Mr. Khashoggi’s disappearance.

Akasyali St. Mr. Khashoggi was last seen on Oct. 2 walking toward this entrance. Entrance Entrance Saudi Arabia Consulate, Istanbul The consulate is in the financial district. The building has entrances at the front and back. Akagac St. Entrance Akasyali St. Mr. Khashoggi was last seen on Oct. 2 walking toward this entrance. Entrance Entrance Saudi Arabia Consulate, Istanbul The consulate is in the financial district. The building has entrances at the front and back. Akagac St. Entrance Akasyali St. Mr. Khashoggi was last seen on Oct. 2 walking toward this entrance. Entrance Entrance Akagac St. Entrance Saudi Arabia Consulate, Istanbul The consulate is in the financial district. The building has entrances at the front and back. Mr. Khashoggi was last seen on Oct. 2 walking toward this entrance. Akasyali St. Entrance Entrance Akagac St. Saudi Arabia Consulate, Istanbul The consulate is in the financial district. The building has entrances at the front and back. Entrance The New York Times | Aerial image by The Associated Press

Friday, Sept. 28

Mr. Khashoggi, a Saudi citizen, had been living in self-imposed exile in the United States since last year. He visited the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul to collect a document that would allow him to marry his Turkish fiancée, but was told he would have to return.

He left Istanbul that afternoon and flew to London for a conference.

At some point after that visit, most likely over the weekend, Mr. Khashoggi called the consulate saying he could return to pick up the document the next Tuesday. Someone from the consulate later called him back and asked him to come in at 1:30 p.m. the day of the appointment, his fiancée, Hatice Cengiz, said.

Saturday, Sept. 29

Jamal Khashoggi spoke at a conference in London organized by the Middle East Monitor on Sept. 29, three days before he went missing. Reuters

Mr. Khashoggi spoke at the conference, which was hosted by the Middle East Monitor, a nonprofit group.

Monday, Oct. 1

Mr. Khashoggi met two friends for lunch in London to discuss a column he had drafted about free speech in the Arab world. The friends later said he appeared unconcerned about his planned return to the consulate in Turkey.

He returned to Istanbul later on Monday, Ms. Cengiz said.

Tuesday, Oct. 2

At 3:13 a.m., a private charter plane carrying nine Saudi officials and intelligence officers, some with diplomatic passports, arrived at Ataturk Airport in Istanbul from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, according to the Turkish news outlet Sabah and government officials who spoke with The New York Times.

The plane was a Gulfstream jet owned by Sky Prime Aviation Services, a charter company based in Riyadh that has long worked with the Saudi government.

A January 2018 image of the Gulfstream jet thought to have flown Saudi officials and intelligence officers from Riyadh to Istanbul hours before Mr. Khashoggi disappeared. AirTeamImages

The Saudi officials checked into two hotels near the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul’s financial district, booking rooms for three nights. They later retrieved their belongings and departed the same day. A Turkish news organization, Sabah, published images of 15 men that turkish officials have identified as Saudi operatives who flew to Istanbul.

Saudi forensics chief and autopsy expert Air Force lieutenant Source: Sabah and Turkish officials Saudi forensics chief and autopsy expert Air Force lieutenant Source: Sabah and Turkish officials Saudi forensics chief and autopsy expert Saudi Air Force lieutenant Source: Sabah and Turkish officials

At 1:14 p.m., Mr. Khashoggi entered the consulate. He gave his two cellphones to Ms. Cengiz and told her to get help if he did not reappear.

AP via TRT WORLD

A senior Turkish official said that within two hours of his arrival, Mr. Khashoggi was killed by a team of Saudi agents, who dismembered his body with a bone saw they’d brought for the purpose.

Saudi officials, including Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman, have insisted that Mr. Khashoggi left the consulate shortly after he arrived, but no evidence has emerged to support that claim.

Around 4 p.m., six vehicles left the consulate carrying Saudi officials and intelligence officers, Sabah reported.

Two other vehicles drove to the Saudi consul’s residence on Meselik Street, which is 200 yards from the consulate. Investigators suspect Mr. Khashoggi was in one of these vehicles, Sabah reported. The vehicles stayed there for four hours. Turkish staff members of the residence were unexpectedly told not to report for work that day.

Meselik St. Saudi consul’s residence On Meselik Street, 200 yards from the consulate. Akagac St. Saudi Arabia Consulate Saudi consul’s residence On Meselik Street, 200 yards from the consulate. Meselik St. Akagac St. Saudi Arabia Consulate Meselik St. Saudi consul’s residence On Meselik Street, 200 yards from the consulate. Akagac St. Saudi Arabia Consulate Meselik St. Saudi consul’s residence On Meselik Street, 200 yards from the consulate. Akagac St. Saudi Arabia Consulate The New York Times | Aerial image by Google

Around 5:15 p.m., a second Sky Prime Aviation Services jet carrying six Saudi officials landed at Ataturk Airport in Istanbul. It departed just over an hour later at 6:20 p.m. and stopped in Cairo before returning to Riyadh.

At 10:46 p.m., the jet that arrived earlier on Tuesday departed Istanbul for Dubai.

Ms. Cengiz waited for Mr. Khashoggi at the consulate until 1 a.m., but he did not emerge.

Wednesday, Oct. 3

Ms. Cengiz returned to the consulate on Wednesday morning, but there was still no sign of Mr. Khashoggi. It was supposed to be their wedding day.

Reuters reported that Mr. Khashoggi was missing, citing interviews with Ms. Cengiz and a friend.
