title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
It took just 12 minutes for LeBron James to put the NBA on notice|http://espn.com/nba|https://theundefeated.com/features/it-took-just-12-minutes-for-lebron-james-to-put-the-nba-on-notice/|Paul Silas,Mike Bibby,David Stern,Doug Christie,Terrell Owens,Ken Griffey Jr,Chris Webber,Rocky Widner,Ira Newble,J.R. Bremer,Dusty Baker,Cleveland Cavaliers,Mary Schmitt Boyer,DeSagana Diop,Tony Massenburg,Ricky Davis,Romeo Travis,NBA,LeBron James,Peja Stojakovic,Los Angeles Lakers,Willie McGee|2018-10-18|Justin Tinsley,Aaron Dodson,Doug Christie,Peja Stojakovic,Mary Schmitt Boyer,Tony Massenburg,Lebron James||If anyone could understand the task before LeBron James, it was 6-foot-10 Hall of Fame center Moses Malone. Malone, who died in 2015 from cardiovascular disease, was one of basketball’s most celebrated giants: a three-time NBA MVP, 13-time All-Star and a Finals MVP. Despite intense recruiting from the University of Maryland, Malone went directly to the professional ranks, in part to help his family. This was in 1974, and he was straight out of Virginia’s Petersburg High School.

James — only months removed from his graduation from St. Vincent-St. Mary High School in Akron, Ohio — was about to make the most anticipated debut in basketball history. He’d soon become the first prep star to start in his professional rookie opener since Malone did it in October 1974 with the ABA’s Utah Stars.

So in the fall of 2003, Nike flew Malone to Sacramento, California, to meet with James before the first regular-season game of his career. The legend and the teenage prodigy sat for lunch at the Cleveland Cavaliers’ team hotel hours before tipoff. They spoke for an hour. “The first-game jitters — that’s the main thing he was concerned about,” James said then. “How you handle it, by staying focused and just competing. Don’t back down from anybody.” James said he’d been hearing that a lot. “But when you hear it from one of the greats,” he continued, “it makes it sound even better.”

So much hysteria surrounded James’ debut, there was a commercial produced about it — before the moment even happened. Weeks earlier, ahead of the release of his first signature sneaker, James starred in the now classic Nike “Pressure” commercial. It featured his Cavs teammates Dajuan Wagner, Carlos Boozer and DeSagana Diop, as well as Kings announcers Grant Napear and Jerry Reynolds, actor Damon Wayans and the legendary George “The Iceman” Gervin.

In it, James, guarded by Sacramento’s Mike Bibby, temporarily freezes before smiling and barreling toward the basket. Originally, James was directed to blow by Bibby, but the veteran point guard wasn’t having that. “I said, ‘You guys want somebody else … I’m not gonna let anybody blow by me,’ ” said Bibby. “I don’t care if it’s LeBron James or Doo Doo Williams. I’m not gonna look like a dummy on TV.”

James handled stardom so well as a teenager in part because it seemed like his birthright. He’d been revered in Ohio basketball circles since the eighth grade, when he dunked for the first time in a students vs. teachers game at Riedinger Middle School. In the 2001 ABCD Camp championship game the summer before his junior year, James’ team defeated a squad led by shooting guard Lenny Cooke, then the top high school player in the country. At 16, James was the first underclassman in nearly two decades to be named a first-team All-American. The final basket of his performance? A 3-pointer in Cooke’s grill to win the game — and a personal 24-9 scoring advantage. That sliver of time catapulted James to phenom status, and the bright lights haven’t been shut off since.

Sports Illustrated blessed James with an iconic cover. His high school games were televised, and called by Dick Vitale and Jay Bilas. James’ favorite rapper Jay-Z, during The Black Album era, became a big brother and mentor. The Cavaliers decided it was worth a $150,000 fine (and a two-game suspension for coach John Lucas) for working out a 17-year-old James — and he dominated in games of 5-on-5. James was drafted No. 1 overall by those same Cavs a year later. “Pressure,” he said in the spring of 2003, “been following me my whole life.”

And the legend of James was also evolving behind the scenes. “We were in practice one time, on the same team,” said teammate J.R. Bremer. “He was running the wing, and I threw him an alley-oop. When I threw it, I said, ‘There’s no way in hell he’ll be able to catch this.’ I’d never seen anyone literally jump over somebody. He still had to catch the ball with one hand, and bring it to two. It was impossible for that to happen. … He jumped over Kevin Ollie.”

James was the first star of the internet era — every move documented, analyzed and critiqued. This happened even in the pre-social era, via message boards, grainy videos and chat rooms. Teen James generated $142 million in endorsements before logging his first NBA minute — including a $100 million deal with Nike. “It was clear Nike was on to something big,” said former NBA commissioner David Stern. “They were placing a very large bet on the success of this young man.” Barbershops, salons, bars, school lunch tables and college campuses buzzed: Who’d be the better pro? James? Or Carmelo Anthony? The LeBron hype machine was firing on all cylinders.

And then, at last, on Oct. 29, 2003, there he was — at Sacramento’s (now closed) Arco Arena. The stage was set for James to become either the game’s next transcendent force — à la Magic Johnson, Shaquille O’Neal and Allen Iverson. Or its next bust — à la Pervis Ellison, Michael Olowokandi or Kwame Brown.

James and the Cavs were the back end of an ESPN doubleheader. The Kings’ championship dreams had been dashed the season before by Webber’s knee injury in a second-round seven-game series against Nick Van Exel, Dirk Nowitzki and the Dallas Mavericks. James’ arrival also coincided with the 180th consecutive sellout crowd at Arco.

“This guy had been anointed since he was in the eighth grade,” said former Kings forward Tony Massenburg. “And the dude was literally living up to it. So by the time you get to his first NBA game, and you’re part of that atmosphere, it’s circuslike. It was like we were looking at the young Michael Jordan.”

Some rooted for his downfall. Others wanted to see if he was worth all the praise. But for one person in particular, it didn’t matter if James became the next Jordan or the next Magic. Malone just wanted what was best for the kid. “These high school players, I want them to do good, because they represent me,” said Malone, the 1983 Finals MVP. “One day there maybe can be another high school player going to the Hall of Fame.”

This is the story of the first quarter of James’ career. Whether player, coach, friend, fellow athlete, reporter or photographer, even 15 years later, people remember those 12 minutes on Oct. 29, 2003, as a quarter that changed the game, and the world.

Everyone quoted is identified by the titles they held during LeBron James’ rookie season.
