title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
LeBron's shining debut can't mask work Lakers still have left to do|http://espn.com/nba|http://www.nba.com/article/2018/10/19/lebron-debut-lakers-have-work-do||2018-10-19|Shaun Powell,Lebron James,On The Lakers' Young Roster||PORTLAND, Ore. -- His first basket of this new era was much like many others, in terms of impact and its ferocity and jaw-dropping nature. LeBron James stole the Trail Blazers’ cross-court pass and before him was the open court … and thousands of open mouths, all bracing in anticipation of a moment.

His fast-break dunk was just as you expected it would be, jammed through the basket with a cocked arm and followed by a brief pose at landing, for emphasis and style. The greatest player in the game was back in full soar Thursday but, as it were, his new team remained stuck to the floor.

Overall, this process is gonna take some time, you think? Before the Los Angeles Lakers whip the basketball world into a frenzy, they must whip Portland.

The Blazers toppled the Lakers on Thursday night.

And also the Houston Rockets, who visit Staples Center on Saturday for the Lakers’ home opener (10:30 ET, ESPN). And the Golden State Warriors. And Anthony Davis and the New Orleans Pelicans. And any team in the Western Conference that considers itself a contender.

But you knew this, right?

“We’ll have to go through some moments,” LeBron said after the Lakers lost at Moda Center, 128-119. “We’ll have some adversity.”

True, this isn’t an overnight sensation in the making.

“Not as fast as you (media) guys think it’s going to happen,” LeBron said.

The Lakers will get more chances to make a first impression, and that’s a good thing for them as they navigate through a potentially tricky transition period with their shiny new showpiece. There is only one thing that’s a lock through this bumpy path: LeBron is still the force he was in Cleveland and Miami, his only other NBA stops.

How did LeBron look in his debut game with the Lakers?

Months before turning 34, his flow and his basketball instincts remain steak-knife sharp and his pride is intact. He tipped off his season by playing 37 minutes -- so much for reduced minutes here after 15 years of deep tread wear on his wheels -- and delivered 26 points, 12 rebounds and six assists.

“I mean, that’s crazy, a guy to be in his 16th year playing at that pace and above the rim the way he was,” said Blazers guard Damian Lillard. “He looked like himself.”

That said, he and his teammates are still working on their wavelength. This was evident for much of the night, when connections were missed and confusion reigned at times.

On Thursday, LeBron threw a behind-the-back pass that in Cleveland or Miami would usually hits its mark to teammates aware of his tendencies and timing. Last night, LeBron tried it and the ball dribbled out of bounds, all of which flummoxed LeBron and Kyle Kuzma (the nearest Laker). After the whistle blew and possession went to Portland, LeBron and Kuzma had a brief chat.
