title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
How Fan-Based Projects Are Helping Preserve Video Games History|http://www.ign.com|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/10/14/how-fan-based-projects-are-helping-preserve-video-games-history?abthid=5bc3ca3e11fb2fcb0b00033a#article_comments||2018-10-14|||Share. Fighting the good fight. Fighting the good fight.

Video games history is in danger of disappearing. There are many reasons for this, from cartridge rot and optical disc degradation through to a lack of consideration of the future on the part of developers or publishers.

Rather than a concerted, industry-wide effort to tackle this, however, preservation efforts are largely piecemeal; taken on by a variety of passionate groups and organisations. Some of my favourite examples have even been spearheaded by the gaming community - by fans.

The Lay of the Land

These efforts have often been at odds with archaic and rigid copyright law, meaning that many of the third parties and fan teams looking to save - or recompile - data before it disappears have essentially been working illegally or at best in legal grey areas.

More formal organisations dedicated to preserving games history have also made progress, but it is, by its very nature, piecemeal. These include The Video Game History Foundation and the Game Preservation Society. The Library of Congress has also increased efforts to preserve video games, now housing over 3,500 titles within its collection. Unfortunately, no single organisation has the capacity to contain all of video games history, leaving significant questions about how preservation should be handled.

“ No single organisation has the capacity to contain all of video games history, leaving significant questions about how preservation should be handled.

Even on a publisher by publisher basis, there are numerous issues. One would assume that developers would keep their source code safe for potential future use, but as Frank Cifaldi, a video games historian, told Eurogamer in 2014, "One of the scariest unpublished truths is that video game developers and publishers are, on average, kind of bad at hanging onto their source code."

A high profile example of this was when Kingdom Hearts creator Tetsuya Nomura admitted (in an interview with Square Enix), that the source code for the original Kingdom Hearts had been completely lost since its creation in the early 2000s. In remastering the series, the title had to be rebuilt from the ground up. If a game as high profile as Kingdom Hearts can lose what Cifaldi likens to “the master print of a movie,” then this is likely to be a widespread problem.

And Kingdom Hearts is a game that’s a standalone single-player retail release - that can be compiled and run without the need for active servers or authentication. When the age of MMOs dawned and then eventually blossomed into the world of games as a service, things become much more complicated.

Digital-only releases have a number of issues too. Take Nintendo’s Satellaview, a Japan-only console peripheral for the Super Famicom that launched in 1995. The system allowed for weekly games to be broadcast via satellite directly to the console. These included ports and remakes of popular Nintendo titles such as The Legend of Zelda, Harvest Moon and Super Mario.

The experimental nature of the device meant that no physical copies of the games were ever produced, and once the service was discontinued, the games were presumed lost and unplayable. This, however, was not the case, as a team of Zelda enthusiasts came together to compile and upload The Legend of Zelda: The Ancient Stone Tablets. The game was a little like a remix of A Link to the Past, but featured a brand new story, and is only playable via a compatible emulator and the illegally collated ROM. Fans have even released translation patches so you can play the game in a variety of languages.

Whether Nintendo - a meticulous company if ever there was one - still has the source code for these titles is unknown, but in the absence of an official re-release, fans took it upon themselves to rediscover this slice of gaming history.

"Once the infringement of IP is ignored it becomes increasingly hard to recover lost ground," digital media IP expert Alex Tutty explained to Wired. This means that companies like Nintendo must have rigid and clear rules around the use of their IP.

In an interview with Waypoint, Reggie Fils-Aimé made Nintendo's stance on the issue of fan games clear, explaining "the line is when an initiative crosses from being an homage to something that is monetizing our IP." Despite the majority of Nintendo fan games being non-monetary products, Fils-Aimé made clear that their stance extended to all 'commercial' games, and any fans that sought to 'drive the direction of the IP' were in violation of Nintendo's copyright policy.

Knights of the Old Gaming Republic

Many similarly 'missing' games are only available because of the efforts of fan preservation. Titles like Thrill Kill and Lobo have been saved and uploaded by fans after being cancelled. Many years after release, dedicated Star Wars fans also transformed Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic II with a variety of mods, updates and add-ons that have improved the original story and added in a significant amount of previously cut content.

Chris Avellone, lead designer and writer of KOTOR II, described the production cycle of the game as difficult, with months of programming and design time lost to poor time management and redesigns. Delays in production meant that plans for the finale of the game were reduced significantly.

“ "There are many games that resound with people... and it's their appreciation that makes all the difference - fans want to preserve games they love." - Chris Avellone.

"A great deal had been designed for the endgame... but to meet the deadline... a lot of that content was cut," Chris tells me. When the game was first released, intrepid fans found evidence of this within a number of cut assets in the game files. These assets ultimately led to the creation of enduring fan patches that redesigned and reimplemented the originally planned ending.

"What they did was beyond what we had planned, and was better for it," Chris admits, underscoring how important fan contributions were to the enduring popularity of the game. "There are many games that resound with people... and it's their appreciation that makes all the difference - fans want to preserve games they love." This love has helped KOTOR II come closer to reaching its true potential and has contributed to its enduring legacy.

Exit Theatre Mode

Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines was a similarly convoluted title released unfinished in 2004 due to rising production costs and a distended development cycle. Several areas were unfinished or cut entirely from the game, and many quests were broken yet accessible. It wasn't until the combined efforts of fans that Bloodlines reached cult status, as a variety of patches created by Dan Upright and Werner Spahl worked to restore missing content and add in a plethora of quests, weaponry and characters.

In a 2013 interview with Eurogamer, Spahl described how the fan community came together, providing advice, bug fixes and scripts as he worked to rebuild the game. The patch has become so integral to Bloodlines that it is now bundled with GOG copies of the game. Without the preservation efforts of fans, Bloodlines would likely never have become a beloved and integral part of video games history.

As mentioned earlier, online games present another hefty issue for games preservation due to the need for a constantly maintained and updated server. Many MMOs have an inbuilt shelf life for this reason, and once developer support has ended, players can no longer access vital game content. Of course, these games are constantly evolving anyway, so we can retroactively only hope for a snapshot from their life, but there’s still plenty of reasons to attempt to do just that.

One interesting example is Maxis' The Sims Online. The legacy of this title is now in the hands of Rhys, a hobbyist developer and long-time Sims fan, who has re-implemented The Sims Online as a free-to-play online title known as FreeSO. Rhys experienced The Sims Online for the first time in 2008, after it had been reimagined as EA-Land, a free-to-play game that promised frequent content updates. Unfortunately, just three weeks after joining, the project was shut down and abandoned by EA.

Even so, it made an instant impression. "What I played of the game was nothing like I'd ever played before or after," he tells me. "It ended up leaving so much of an impact that bringing it back was always on my mind."

FreeSO is a technically legal re-implementation of The Sims Online as it functions only as a client to read the original source code and is built from scratch using modern programming frameworks. EA has been in contact with the FreeSO team and has noted its approval as long as the nature of the project as a fanwork is clear, and no donations are accepted.

“ FreeSO is a technically legal re-implementation of The Sims Online as it functions only as a client to read the original source code...

FreeSO is run by Rhys with the aid of a dedicated team of programmers, scripters, artists and remeshers who work to maintain the server and provide frequent updates to the game. While the project is still in beta, it has attracted a concurrent player base of around 100, whom Rhys describes as “very dedicated” and “ecstatic” to see the game return.

I can empathise. Growing up, The Sims Online was a haven for me - a chance to interact with new friends in a digital community and become fully immersed in the world of The Sims. Online gaming was an emerging platform in the early 2000s, but has become ever more integral since. These virtual worlds were home to an astonishing number of concurrent players, but many of the titles that paved the way for the current generation of games have long since disappeared, leaving a distinct gap in video games history.

With strict copyright laws, and only rare exceptions to unfair rulings, many fan-based video game restorations exist within a legal grey area, and are often at risk of being shut down completely. Legal threats from developers have ended years-long passion projects from enthusiastic and dedicated fans looking to preserve the magic behind their favourite games.

Even so, there are success stories out there, and they are making a difference. Coming back to The Sims Online after so many years away, for instance, feels a lot like coming home. I might not be the same gamer I was back then, but there’s a certain magic in revisiting a title I once held so dear. It’s heartening to know that there are people out there that care enough to dedicate themselves to restoring lost games; to help preserve slices of video game history, even without the support of the industry.

Leah Williams is a freelance writer based in Australia who loves video games and wrestling. Why not say hello on Twitter?
