title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
My Hero Academia Offers More Relatable Superheroes with Refreshing Motivations|http://www.ign.com/articles|http://www.ign.com/articles/2018/10/14/my-hero-academia-offers-more-relatable-superheroes-with-refreshing-motivations||2018-10-14|||Share. By focusing on the personal driving forces of individual characters, this anime offers a special group of heroes. By focusing on the personal driving forces of individual characters, this anime offers a special group of heroes.

When I think of superheroes, the general idea of their origins tend to lean towards a higher calling, a greater purpose that shifts their path in life from that of a normal citizen to that of a protector who uses their power to help others. There is often some force — a tragedy like with Batman and Spider-Man, some kind of larger destiny as with Green Lantern, the greater good as seen with the X-Men, etc. — that pushes a person to become a hero, effectively moving them away from a normal life and instilling them with an unrelenting desire to help others. These stories have been revisited quite often over the past few years in movies, games, and comic reboots, and though enjoyable, I’ve been wanting a different kind of superhero story. I found that change of pace in the world of Kohei Horikoshi’s My Hero Academia, where the usual character motivations of superhero narratives are subverted to make the path of a hero a choice, and a very personal one at that.

“ There’s no obligation to be a superhero, no moral force saying that because they have a superpower they must use it to protect.

This subversion starts with the world of the series, where 80% of the Earth’s population has superpowers known as Quirks, which immediately stands apart from the usual superhero universe in which only a select few individuals have powers. With such an oversaturation of superpowers, there’s no obligation to be a superhero, no moral force saying that because they have a superpower they must use it to protect those who do not have powers themselves. Because of this, being a hero is a career rather than a calling. And that, that right there is one of the most beautiful elements of My Hero Academia, that a series about superhumans is so human, with average, human motivations that take a step back from the classic altruistic ideals.

Exit Theatre Mode

The hero career path in My Hero Academia comes complete with a number of different hero schools to choose from, cutthroat competition, and, most important, unique motivations for every up-and-coming hero. Because going to school to become a hero is the same as pursuing any other dream job, the students enrolled in a hero course have their own personal reason to be there, a driving force that is theirs to claim. My Hero Academia generally does an incredible job of exploring the motivations of its rather large cast of characters.

“ Midoriya has a pure, innate sense of justice and wants to protect and help people.

My Hero Academia’s main character, Izuku “Deku” Midoriya is a bridge between classic superhero character motivations and Horikoshi’s altered approach thereof. Midoriya has a pure, innate sense of justice and wants to protect and help people — in fact, there are multiple points where jumps in to help others without a second thought, despite sometimes recklessly putting himself in danger. His desire to help others comes out of a deep, personal dream to be like his favorite superhero, All Might. Even if Midoriya’s character motivation is the most basic of the cast of My Hero Academia, it still has a personal twist to it.

The other students in Deku’s class, some of whom get their own time in the limelight, provide further examples of personal motivation driving the pursuit of superheroism. For instance, Ochaco Uraraka aims to become a professional hero so that she can make enough money to provide her family with a comfortable life. It’s perhaps one of the most heartwarming character motivations in the series and it helps to cement the idea that being a hero is a paying career.

Another example of personal motivation comes from Shoto Todoroki, the son of Japan’s second greatest hero, Endeavor. Todoroki wants to carve his own path as a hero, one that does not rely on his father’s prestige. In fact, he is so disgusted by his father that he rejects the fire powers he inherited from him and instead favors the ice powers he received from his mother. Todoroki’s motivations veer pretty far from the usual “protecting others” path, which is why he’s one of the series’ most interesting characters — he doesn’t have the usual “boy-scout” traits of a hero, he’s just a kid with a chip on his shoulder.

DC Extended Universe: Every Upcoming Movie 10+ IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 24 Click through the slideshow for DC’s entire planned slate of films. Some are scheduled and have release dates while others are still in development and subject to change -- and may not happen at all. 01 OF 24 Click through the slideshow for DC’s entire planned slate of films. Some are scheduled and have release dates while others are still in development and subject to change -- and may not happen at all. DC Extended Universe: Every Upcoming Movie Download Image Captions ESC

To boil it down, heroes-in-training are pursuing the heroic path because, for the most part, they have a choice, and the motivations behind that choice make for a more relatable story that I’ve been craving from superhero genre. I’ll never know what it’s like to have powers, but I can empathize deeply with these kids’ dreams. The relatability and power of the series thrives on this concept; ideas of justice and protecting the innocent are still present and strong throughout the series, but at its core, My Hero Academia is a superhero story that’s about pursuing a dream, something that I frequently find myself resonating with as the series has progressed.

Marvel and DC established what it means to be a superhero. They made the model that led to decades of great superhero storytelling, the very model that Horikoshi subverts in his unique approach to the genre. These classic tales of heroism, selflessness and higher callings still provide for some effective and hard-hitting storytelling — DC and Marvel’s continued success are testaments to this. That said, the superhero genre — heck, any genre — can greatly benefit from a change of pace, and My Hero Academia is giving me that fresh superhero story I was looking for.

My Hero Academia’s third anime season just ended and its first movie, My Hero Academia: Two Heroes, completed its theatrical run, but the anime series continues next year. If you’re interested in watching My Hero Academia, you can stream it on Hulu, Funimation, and Crunchyroll. The manga is available in both print and digital formats.

For more on anime, be sure to check out IGN’s mini-series Anime Omake.

Sean Aitchison is a writer and podcaster. You can follow him on Twitter and check out his podcasts, Influenca and Pop Love.
