title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
The Best Samsung Galaxy Note 9 Cases|http://www.ign.com/wireless|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/10/12/the-best-samsung-galaxy-note-9-cases?abthid=5bc0d9c39a05a9517d0003cb||2018-10-12|||Share. What are the chances you'll never drop your phone? What are the chances you'll never drop your phone?

Be sure to visit IGN Tech for all the latest comprehensive hands-on reviews and best-of roundups. Note that if you click on one of these links to buy the product, IGN may get a share of the sale. For more, read our Terms of Use.

Samsung's brand new Galaxy Note 9 phone has arrived and if you're an owner of the company's latest stylus-equipped phone, you will want to keep it safe from the elements (as well as your own slippery hands). I've been keeping tabs on the Galaxy case scene for many years, so I've rounded up some of the best cases available so you don't have to spend hours researching it. Here are my top picks for Galaxy Note 9 cases.

Best Samsung Case

When a company comes out with a new phone, it's a safe bet that the manufacturer's cases will fit perfectly, and also be precisely color-matched. That's certainly the case, no pun intended, with Samsung's LED View Wallet Cover, and it even protects both sides of the Note 9. But wait, you say, what about notifications and the camera on the back? Naturally Samsung thought of this, so it includes a semi-transparent front flap that displays rows of lights to show the time and notifications, and there's a handy port on the back to allow you to use the camera as well. Plus, the blue looks pretty snazzy.

Best Clear Case

Not everyone wants to cover up their new phone, so a clear case is the best way to show off your glimmering hardware while still giving it some protection. Spigen's Liquid Crystal Case lets everyone see the Note 9 while also providing a bit of shock protection, all while retaining the phone's slim profile and wireless charging capabilities. Spigen also claims its unique "dot" pattern prevents pockets of air from developing inside the case, which is a minor concern but still a nice feature to have in a case.

Best Ultra-Thin Case

Just because you want to keep your phone safe doesn't mean you have to ruin its portability with a slab of plastic on all sides. This ultra-thin shell from Anccer adds just 0.3mm of thickness to your handset, and makes it easy to slide in and out of pockets and bags. Despite its slim design, the Anccer case still allows access to all necessary ports and buttons, and it even keeps the camera safe when you set it down on a table too. Plus it's available in nine different colors, so you can get one that matches your eyes.

Best Holster Case

Depending on your line of work or your lifestyle, you may need a case that offers a holster design along with some rugged protection. The full-body case from Supcase offers protection for the phone on all sides, and has port covers as well as a screen protector so your phone is literally entombed, yet it still allows for wireless charging (though the company recommends official Samsung chargers, for some reason). There's even a kickstand for watching movies, and Supcase claims it can withstand drops from 20 feet, so it'll survive a pretty gnarly drop.

Best Case for Showing Off Your Phone

Samsung makes some attractive phones and the Note 9 is no exception. ESR's case features a tempered glass layer for scratch protection while soft corners protect it from bumps and drops. The glass design also mimics the look of the actual phone so everyone can easily check out which color you picked out. Besides, who said tempered glass is just for PC gamers?

Best Case for Netflix Sessions

It can be tiring holding your phone while binging your favorite show. This Watache Case comes with a clear front cover that can be folded back to prop up the Note 9 for optimal viewing, and the clear cover also lets you see the time, date, and weather through the cover. Plus, with the case closed you get security for both sides of your phone to help make sure you keep it in pristine condition for as long as possible.

Best Rugged Case

Sometimes you just need a case that can take a beating, whether it's from your kids, or the outside world, and the Vanguard Case from ArmadilloTek is made to do just that. This rugged chassis has "military grade" hardware and has gone through extensive drop tests to ensure its durability, plus a screen cover is included to prevent scratches and cracks. It's even got a built-in kickstand too, so you can prop it up for movies on-the-go.

Best Waterproof Case

If you enjoy the water and/or snow, a waterproof case is a must-have. Spidercase's offering defends the Note 9 from water, snow, and dust, all while providing rugged protection to both the body and screen of the phone. Even with all of its defenses, the case still allows for wireless charging and S-Pen detection.

Justin Rubio is a mobile expert who still misses webOS. When he's not writing about tech, he's probably running.
