title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
5 Things You Didn't Know About Trish Regan|http://insider.foxnews.com|http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/08/03/trish-regan-fox-business-network-anchor-5-things-you-didnt-know|Judge Jeanine|2018-08-03|Trish Regan||Fox News Insider caught up with Fox Business anchor Trish Regan to find out more about her life away from the studio.

Trish is a mother of three, was once crowned Miss New Hampshire and has a seriously amazing singing voice!

Read on for more from the host of Fox Business Network&#39;s &quot;Intelligence Report,&quot; airing weekdays at 2:00pm ET.

1. I grew up in New Hampshire, the daughter of a journalist. My mom worked at the Daily Telegraph in London on Fleet Street in the 1960s and then at the Union Leader in New Hampshire.

In the 80s, she was a freelance feature writer for the Boston Globe. I loved tagging along with her when she went out on stories. It was my time with Mom.

Seeing her commitment to her craft and knowing how much she truly loved it, had a huge impact on me, eventually putting me on the path to becoming a journalist myself.

2. I’m a mother of three: twin girls and a son. My children have given me a whole new appreciation for, literally, everything. Their natural curiosity and positive attitudes are so infectious. I cherish every moment I have with them and always make sure to set aside time just for them.

Every working mother (and father!) struggles with the balance between career and family and there are no easy answers. Children need us - and we need them. I travel a fair amount and I always hated being away. So, around a year ago, I just decided to try to take one of the kids with me on every trip.

They take turns and it’s been wonderful for me, and great exposure for them. Not everyone can do this so, I realize, I’m pretty lucky. But, finding ways to connect with your kids while at work - even if it’s as simple as a daily FaceTime call - can go a long way.

Here’s my daughter, Elizabeth, in D.C. with me at the State of the Union...

She was SO proud to be there and read my entire research packet cover to cover ahead of the event, quizzing me constantly!

When we got home, she gave her classmates a whole presentation on the history of the SOTU.

3. My best friend in the world is my sister, Caitlin. Though she lives rather far away, we see each other almost every other weekend and we talk every day. Caitlin and I are pretty different: She’s blonde, I’m brunette. She’s detail-oriented, I’m big picture. She likes scary movies, I (definitely) don’t!

As different as we are, we love each other so much. She’s my confidant. Caitlin plays a huge role in my children’s lives and she is a real-life superstar to them.

4. I met my husband James at a wedding. He had played high school basketball with my cousin during a post-grad year at a boarding school in Maine. He even spent a few holidays with my cousin and our family, but we never met. (It’s probably just as well, because I was a 13-year-old kid in braces!)

Years later, my cousin got married — and James and I finally met at that wedding. I knew right away that this was the person I would marry. Six months later, we were engaged and we married in August 2001.

James is such a positive force - always reminding me to do what I love and helping me find that balance between work and home. When I was in my early twenties and trying to figure out what to do with my life, it was James who encouraged me to ditch my job at Goldman Sachs to become a financial journalist. It was risky (I kinda liked what I considered the security of a banking job), but doing a job you love is the only way you’ll be truly successful in a profession.

Sometimes I think, what would have happened if I had not gone to that wedding? I thank God every day that I did.

5. I am a classically-trained singer who studied opera at New England Conservatory in Boston and later, in Graz, Austria.

Recently, my kids were asking me to sing the national anthem for the Fourth of July. I hadn’t sung in a while (other than lullabies to them at night) so, I decided to give it a shot.

Check it out here:

I won a lot of voice competitions. As Miss New Hampshire in 1993, I got to perform at the Miss America pageant and I won the Bernard Wayne Award. Wayne was the composer of the theme song “There She Is” and the award was given to the contestant who showed the most promise in the performing arts.

Catch up with Trish on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram and don&#39;t miss &quot;The Intelligence Report with Trish Regan,&quot; weekdays at 2:00pm ET on Fox Business Network!

See more about your favorite Fox News on-air personalities...

Ainsley Earhardt

Judge Jeanine

Tomi Lahren

Jillian Mele

Sandra Smith

Harris Faulkner
