title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Ben Shapiro: In This Country We Have A Significant Conflict Between Social Justice And Individual Justice|http://radio.foxnews.com|https://radio.foxnews.com/2018/10/12/ben-shapiro-in-this-country-we-have-a-significant-conflict-between-social-justice-and-individual-justice/||2018-10-12|Christine Desanctis,Cristina Johnson||Ben Shapiro, Host of the Ben Shapiro Show, Editor in Charge of The DailyWire.com, joined Guy Benson to discuss a variety of topics including: Civility, Justice Kavanaugh & the conflict of social justice and individual justice.

On referring to the left's actions and conduct as the work of "mobs": Too many folks on the left invested in the idea that the only sort of mob is the right wing mob. Which is why you saw all these folks on CNN making the argument that when we see people banging on Supreme Court doors to try and get in or when you see people trying to jump after Senators into elevators or even for CNN when Antifa does violent things and that's not worthy of censure the only real sort of mob is Charlottesville the only mob we have seen in politics in the 10 years. Occupy wasn't the mob when they were committing crimes. The only mobs they have seen is the Tea Party and Charlottesville those are the only mobs they have ever seen. It would be one thing if there was any sort of objective basis for comparison but there is no objective basis for comparison. (2:00)

On Kavanaugh Confirmation In this country we have a significant conflict between social justice and individual justice. This is a deeper philosophical issue. A lot of folks on the left who are constantly using the terminology of social justice, the idea that justice can only be had when certain groups get justice. But social justice in some cases is supposed to override individual justice so it doesn't matter whether Kavanaugh was guilty or innocent. What matters is that women are broadly innocent and men are broadly guilty or that men have historically victimized women in ways that women have not victimized men. (6:27)

On Emotionalism If it's believe all women, but weird how Julie Swetnick's allegations all went away. It seems to me we should believe Brett Kavanaugh was spiking the punch and gang raping people because Julie Swetnick said so. Obviously it's not believe all women, it's believe the women you want to believe. (14:29)

On the left shaming Kanye West: Kanye West committed two sins, he is black and he is a celebrity. Because he supports Trump he violated two tenants of identity politics for the left. If you are a celebrity you have to support the democrats and if you are black you have to support the democrats. Kanye didn't do either of those two things. That means he is not authentically black and that he is a crazy person who is not authentically a celebrity. That is just the way the logic of the left works. (16:01)
