title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
'Bob, Are You Stupid?': Judge Jeanine Rips Mueller for Lack of Investigation Into Bruce Ohr|http://insider.foxnews.com|http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/08/19/judge-jeanine-rips-mueller-lack-investigation-bruce-ohr|Andrew McCabe,Judge Jeanine Opening Statement,Donald Trump,Robert Mueller,Judge Jeanine,Trending,James Comey,Peter Strzok,Bruce Ohr|2018-08-19|||In her Opening Statement, Judge Jeanine Pirro said that the intentions behind Bruce Ohr and Christopher Steele's relationship was to tee up an investigation by Special Counsel Robert Mueller.

She said the speculation about Ohr's relationship with Steele -- the Trump-Russia dossier author -- and Fusion GPS co-founder Glenn Simpson, too, show further proof that President Trump is being framed.

Ohr's wife, Nellie Ohr, worked for Fusion GPS, an opposition research firm that was hired by the Hillary Clinton campaign and the Democratic National Committee (DNC) to compile the dossier of potentially damaging information against Trump.

Colorado University Professor Assigns Anti-Trump Material as Required Class Reading

Pirro said that it was amazing how Ohr had nothing to do with the Russia probe, yet made himself a part of it in order to get Steele onto Mueller's team.

She asked why the special counsel isn't investigating the Ohrs, or former FBI officials like Andrew McCabe, Peter Strzok and James Comey.

"So here we have Bruce Ohr, who's not just violating the law. He's not even disclosing his wife is working for the agency paying for the fake dossier. Bob, are you stupid?"

Pirro also labeled Mueller as the government's "serial cleaner." She said he's now panicking because he has nothing on Trump and that talks of subpoenaing him are ridiculous.

On "Justice," @JudgeJeanine slammed Special Counsel Robert Mueller and the Russia investigation. pic.twitter.com/J3YFkEKlLR — Fox News (@FoxNews) August 19, 2018

Watch more above.

'A Very Real Problem': Candace Owens Reacts to Conservatives Being Censored on Social Media

Trump Says Bruce Ohr Is a 'Disgrace,' Aiming to Revoke His Security Clearance 'Very Quickly'

Gaetz: The Ohrs Were the 'Bonnie and Clyde of Collusion', Manafort Case Unimportant
