title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Dave Chappelle: Trump Is 'Speaking to a Very Small Choir', Has 'Repugnant' Rhetoric|http://www.foxnews.com|http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/10/14/dave-chappelle-trump-speaking-very-small-choir-has-repugnant-rhetoric|Trending,Dave chappelle,Donald Trump,Kanye West,Judge Jeanine|2018-10-14|||Comedian Dave Chappelle called President Trump's rhetoric 'repugnant' in an interview on Saturday and said he represents a small amount of the American public.

Chappelle's criticism on "The Van Jones Show" came just days after he defended rapper Kanye West for meeting with the president at the White House.

During Saturday's interview, the comedian acknowledged the diversity of the country but said Trump is "speaking to a very small choir."

"The rhetoric of his presidency is repugnant," he said. "I just don't like the way he talks. We're living in a time where there's got to be a little more cultural sensitivity."

"I think the rhetoric of (Donald Trump's) presidency is repugnant," comedian Dave Chappelle tells @VanJones68. "We're living in a time where there's gotta be a little more cultural sensitivity." Watch the Van Jones Show at 7 p.m. ET on CNN. https://t.co/QIIXvaMD1O pic.twitter.com/jFarcoeSmM — CNN (@CNN) October 13, 2018

HS Student Forced to Remove 'Trump' Jersey at Patriotic Football Game

Chappelle, most notably known for his comedy series "Chappelle's Show," referred to West as a "genius" during Saturday's interview and said he isn't "mad" at the rapper for meeting with the president.

Dave Chappelle says President Trump is “speaking to a very small choir” pic.twitter.com/YnJ8k2frlG — FOX & friends (@foxandfriends) October 14, 2018

"That's my brother. I love him, I support him," he said. "But, you know, I don't have to agree with everything that he says. I just trust him as a person of intent."

Many pundits slammed the Trump-West summit on Thursday, with CNN anchor Don Lemon calling it an "embarrassment," MSNBC anchor Stephanie Ruhle saying it was "an assault on our White House," and New York Times columnist Michael Eric Dyson dubbing it "white supremacy by ventriloquism."

"I said we should give him a chance because he's the president of the United States now," Chappelle added on Saturday. "What choice do I have?"

'Too Dumb to Know You're Losing': Pirro Rips Dems, Media Over Anti-Trump 'Antics'

Rutgers Postpones Alum's Speaking Appearance on Free Speech After Islamophobia Accusations

'We Are Not Civil': Vandals Smash Windows, Spray Paint Doors of NYC GOP Office
