title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Host of Watters World Jesse Watters, General Jack Keane, & National Editor of The Cook Political Report Amy Walter|http://radio.foxnews.com|https://radio.foxnews.com/2018/10/11/benson-and-harf-10-11-18/||2018-10-11|William Sanchez||Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

Jesse Watters, Co-Host of "The Five" & Host of "Watters' World" on Fox News Channel talks news of the day with Guy and Marie.

No Rest After Kavanaugh! The White House announced 13 new judicial nominees Wednesday evening, continuing President Donald Trump's aggressive push to confirm judges to the federal bench. The nominations include five picks for appeals courts, and eight for trial court seats, and includes a Big Law presence. All of the nominees on Wednesday's list are also men. Guy & Marie discuss.

Ye! Kanye West did lunch with President Trump Thursday, but pre-empted the meal with a wildly entertaining and decidedly bizarre press conference in which he covered Superman, the 13th and Second amendments, North Korea and his budding MAGA bromance with the commander in chief.

What Happened? Mohammed bin Salman, the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, ordered that Washington Post contributor Jamal Khashoggi be lured to that country from his home in the U.S. and detained, the paper reported Wednesday evening. Khashoggi, 59, has not been seen since he entered the Saudi consulate in Istanbul on Oct. 2. Turkish officials have said that they believe Khashoggi was murdered and dismembered inside the building by members of an elite "assassination squad." Saudi officials say Khashoggi left through an alternate exit, but have offered no proof to support that contention. General Jack Keane, a retired 4 star general, former Vice Chief of Staff of the US Army, the chairman of the Institute for the Study of War and Fox News Senior Strategic Analyst, joins the show to discuss.

Amy Walter, National Editor of The Cook Political Report, talks midterms with Guy and Marie.

Download, enjoy and please give us a review! And remember to listen to The Benson and Harf Show LIVE Monday through Friday 6-8 pm Eastern! Find out more at BensonAndHarf.com
