title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Kurtz: The 'Freak-out' Over Kanye's Meeting With Trump Is a Display of 'Ideological Opposition'|http://insider.foxnews.com|http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/10/13/howard-kurtz-criticism-kanye-west-meeting-trump-display-ideological-opposition|Donald Trump,Kanye West,Judge Jeanine|2018-10-13|||MediaBuzz host Howard Kurtz reacted Friday night on The Ingraham Angle to the media's criticism of rapper Kanye West's meeting with President Trump.

Trump and West met at the White House on Thursday to discuss a wide range of topics including racism, gun control and the violence in Chicago.

Kanye West: “The problem is illegal guns, illegal guns is the problem. Not legal guns. We have the right to bear arms.” pic.twitter.com/Mo1TPm6ep0 — Fox News (@FoxNews) October 11, 2018

The two preempted the lunch meeting with a highly entertaining press conference, and both events were subsequently blasted by numerous media outlets.

"The brutal nature for some of this criticism is really driven by ideology," Kurtz said.

Rutgers Postpones Alum's Speaking Appearance on Free Speech After Islamophobia Accusations

Kurtz added that, even though West has made controversial comments in the past, he's being picked apart by the media just because he's supporting the president.

"Now, because he's wearing the red hat, he's embracing Donald Trump, he must be loco," he said.

Many pundits slammed the duo's meeting, with CNN anchor Don Lemon calling it an "embarrassment," MSNBC anchor Stephanie Ruhle saying it was "an assault on our White House," and New York Times columnist Michael Eric Dyson dubbing it "white supremacy by ventriloquism."

Kanye West: “I love this guy right here. Let me give this guy a hug.” pic.twitter.com/fuHyzkW37X — Fox News (@FoxNews) October 11, 2018

"The freak-out is just so over the top that I think it can only be written off as ideological opposition to a guy who thinks a little differently."

Watch the interview from The Ingraham Angle above.

'We Are Not Civil': Vandals Smash Windows, Spray Paint Doors of NYC GOP Office

HS Student Forced to Remove 'Trump' Jersey at Patriotic Football Game

Supreme Coven: Witches in New York to Hold Public Ritual to 'Hex' Kavanaugh
