title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Minneapolis Mayor Angers Police With Mandatory Placards Aimed at Helping Illegal Immigrants|http://insider.foxnews.com|http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/10/12/minneapolis-mayor-angers-police-mandatory-placards-aimed-helping-illegal-immigrants|Trending,Police Officers,Minneapolis,Judge Jeanine,Illegal Immigrants|2018-10-12|||Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey announced this week that mandatory placards detailing immigrants’ rights will be displayed in police squad cars, and now some officers are pushing back.

The signs will be in both English and Spanish, and will be displayed in all of the city's squad cars.

"Right now, cities have to step up and do what our federal administration and Congress won’t," Frey said at a press conference Wednesday. “We will not let this lack of compassion at the highest levels of our government prevent us from doing what is right for our immigrant communities here in Minneapolis."

“They will make it clear that you don’t have to answer questions about where you were born, your immigration status, whether you are a citizen and that you have the right to remain silent,” he explained.

Lt. Bob Kroll, president of the Police Officers Federation of Minneapolis, said on "Fox & Friends First" Friday that this is an example of city leaders' "extreme, left-wing politics."

'Congress Has Turned a Blind Eye': Sheriffs' Association Crowdfunding for Trump's Border Wall

Illegal Immigrants to Get $1M for Legal Defense From Oregon Taxpayers

"They refuse to accept the first word is 'illegal.' They're an illegal immigrant. It's obviously illegal to be here to begin with, and then secondly, further illegal activity is what's led them to the back of a squad car," Kroll said.

He said there's been a big backlash to the placards from Minneapolis officers, who want to work with federal authorities to enforce immigration law.

"We're all in law enforcement together. And we just feel that it erodes the safety of our citizens," Kroll said.

He pointed to a "rebellion" in Minneapolis and other sanctuary cities against the Trump administration's crackdown on criminal aliens.

"We're just hoping that the voters get out and, at the state level, tell the Minneapolis politicians, 'Hey, this isn't what we want in our state.'"

AZ Dem Senate Candidate Compared Illegal Immigrants to Soldiers Killed in Iraq

Trump 'Not Happy' With Border Wall Progress, Vows Something 'Very Strong' After Election

Tucker Battles Immigration Advocate: 'So Economic Growth Comes Directly from Low Wage Immigration?'

Candace Owens Rips Media's 'Absolutely Despicable' Coverage of Trump-Kanye Meeting
