title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Poll Finds 80% of Americans, Including Minority Groups, Reject Political Correctness|http://insider.foxnews.com|http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/10/12/poll-finds-80-americans-including-minority-groups-reject-political-correctness|Trending,Judge Jeanine|2018-10-12|||A new poll found that 80 percent of Americans believe political correctness is a problem, including large majorities of minority groups.

The study, titled "Hidden Tribes: A Study of America’s Polarized Landscape," found that 82 percent of respondents also view hate speech as a problem.

Among those disliking PC culture were 79 percent of respondents under age 24, 79 percent of whites, 87 percent of Hispanics and 75 percent of African-Americans.

Candace Owens Rips Media's 'Absolutely Despicable' Coverage of Trump-Kanye Meeting

AZ Dem Senate Candidate Compared Illegal Immigrants to Soldiers Killed in Iraq

The study sought to examine the country's increasingly tribal politics and the polarization between the left and right.

Summarizing the findings, The Atlantic's Yascha Mounk wrote:

According to the report, 25 percent of Americans are traditional or devoted conservatives, and their views are far outside the American mainstream. Some 8 percent of Americans are progressive activists, and their views are even less typical. By contrast, the two-thirds of Americans who don’t belong to either extreme constitute an “exhausted majority.” Their members “share a sense of fatigue with our polarized national conversation, a willingness to be flexible in their political viewpoints, and a lack of voice in the national conversation.” Most members of the “exhausted majority,” and then some, dislike political correctness. Among the general population, a full 80 percent believe that “political correctness is a problem in our country.” Even young people are uncomfortable with it, including 74 percent ages 24 to 29, and 79 percent under age 24. On this particular issue, the woke are in a clear minority across all ages.

Responding on "The Five," Jedediah Bila and Jesse Watters agreed that the aversion to so-called "PC culture" is what drove many voters toward Donald Trump.

"He sounds like someone who's being direct and honest with them," she said.

Watters said the study is "fascinating," particularly the finding that large majorities of blacks and Hispanics dislike political correctness.

"That makes me think it's the vocal minority in the media that makes people lose their jobs when they say something controversial or politically incorrect," he observed.

Watch "The Five" discussion above.

'This Is a Mob Being Incited': Bondi, Bongino, Gorka & Hannity on Left's Rejection of Civility

'View' Host Sunny Hostin: 'A Woman's Word Is Enough' on Kavanaugh-Type Sexual Assault Allegations

Tucker: Dems, The Media 'Terrified You'll Listen to What Kanye West Is Saying'

Ingraham Praises Michelle Obama: Holder's Rhetoric Is Not 'What We Want to Teach Our Kids'
