title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Rutgers Postpones Alum's Speaking Appearance on Free Speech After Islamophobia Accusations|http://insider.foxnews.com|http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/10/13/rutgers-postpones-lisa-daftari-speaking-appearance-free-speech-after-islamophobia|Rutgers University,Judge Jeanine,Lisa Daftari|2018-10-13|||A Rutgers University alumna had her lecture on free speech postponed by the university after a petition by students began circulating, accusing her of Islamophobia.

Lisa Daftari was scheduled to speak at Rutgers on "Radicalism on College Campuses" next Tuesday and was invited by the institution.

LET'S BE CLEAR- this was not a "postponement"- that is public relations talk for a cowardly CANCELLATION. @RutgersU told me the event was canceled. — Lisa Daftari (@LisaDaftari) October 12, 2018

Daftari was "conflating Islam with extremism," according a piece by the Muslim Public Relations Council published in the Rutgers student newspaper.

"Hate-mongering under the guise of free speech, as Daftari does, directly affects the safety of Muslims on campus," it said.

Tarlov on 2020: Bloomberg Could Go Toe-to-Toe With Trump, Kamala Harris Could Be 'Formidable'

Daftari said Friday on Fox News @ Night that although the university has said it postponed her appearance, she feels "absolutely disinvited."

She told Shannon Bream that she had been told the word "postponement" was used for public relations reasons.

"The bottom line is they were shutting down free speech," she said. "A small handful of campus bullies decided that they can throw around the word 'Islamophobia' in an unethical and irresponsible way."

The petition states that Daftari is "an unapologetic Islamophobe," and also refers to her as a "bigot."

. @RutgersU cancelled a talk from a dedicated women’s rights activist who has done more to defend oppressed women in the Middle East and around the world than any of the thugs silencing her. This is a disgrace. https://t.co/TmQ5XY960F — Katie Pavlich (@KatiePavlich) October 12, 2018

Daftari said on Friday that the school chose the subject to discuss during her appearance.

Clarification - This is an email from ⁦@RutgersU⁩ suggesting the topic of my talk- radicalism- which was then the reason they canceled. (The email below says the talk was supposed to be 6 months ago but was then pushed this semester- Oct 16) pic.twitter.com/WL0AOZk0iT — Lisa Daftari (@LisaDaftari) October 12, 2018

"I told them I was going to add the tag line to speak about 'freedom of speech on campus' so more irony to add to that," she said.

Conversely, a petition has been started to let Daftari speak at Rutgers.

A statement by the university said that it will go forward with events that "reflect a wide variety of perspectives."

Watch more above.

HS Student Forced to Remove 'Trump' Jersey at Patriotic Football Game

Tucker: Backlash Against Kanye Shows the Left Sees 'Free Speech as a Virus'

Supreme Coven: Witches in New York to Hold Public Ritual to 'Hex' Kavanaugh
