title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Supreme Coven: Witches in New York to Hold Public Ritual to 'Hex' Kavanaugh|http://insider.foxnews.com|http://insider.foxnews.com/2018/10/12/brett-kavanaugh-be-hexed-witches-brooklyn-new-york-liberal-sherpa-says|Brett Kavanaugh,Judge Jeanine|2018-10-12|||A coven of New York witches is holding a public ceremony next week to cast a hex on Justice Brett Kavanaugh, in what Tucker Carlson described as the latest left-wing effort to stop his rise to the high court.

"Liberal Sherpa" Cathy Areu said the hexing will take place in Brooklyn, and that it will include an optional $10 donation to take part.

Carlson said part of the proceeds will go to Planned Parenthood, to "fund their own human sacrifice rituals."

He said that it is appropriate that the Democratic Party, which "conducts witch hunts" also "conducts witchcraft."

Areu said the coven previously cast three hexes on President Trump and considered their efforts successful in partially stymieing his administration's goals.

OH Lt. Gov. Calls for Sen. Sherrod Brown to Resign Over Abuse Filings

Poll Finds 80% of Americans, Including Minority Groups, Reject Political Correctness

She said that many on the left have "Trump Anxiety Disorder" and are acting on the development by taking greater efforts to stop things like his judicial nominees through protest and now witchcraft.

Carlson said that Americans used to laugh at third-world countries that practice grisly things like witchcraft and cannibalism, but that it appears that one of those has come to the Empire State.

He said that it is doubly dangerous to cast hexes, in the case that unseen evil forces actually do exist and that the ceremony could do real damage to people.

Carlson said he will definitely not be "sitting around with a bunch of dumb people, summoning up dark forces."

'Dems Made Their Bed': Gutfeld, The Five React to New GOP 'Mob' Ad

'What Is She Talking About?': 'Outnumbered' on MSNBC Host Calling Trump-Kanye Meeting 'Assault' on WH
