title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
15 Big Things Coming From Marvel and DC in September|http://www.ign.com/comics|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/06/21/15-big-things-coming-from-marvel-and-dc-in-september||2018-06-21|||Share. Wolverine has a case of the hot claws. Wolverine has a case of the hot claws.

Both Marvel Comics and DC Comics have released their full solicitations for September 2018. It's shaping up to be another big month for both companies, with Marvel kicking off events like The Return of Wolverine and Spidergeddon and DC relaunching the Vertigo imprint and kicking off a very different sort of Crisis storyline.

Scroll down to see the biggest new projects and storylines in the works for September, and let us know what you're excited to read in the comments below.

Wolverine Is Back (Finally)

Wolverine originally returned from the dead back in Marvel Legacy #1 last year, and 12 months later readers will finally learn what his return means for the future of the Marvel Universe. Return of Wolverine #1 kicks off a five-issue miniseries from the same creative team behind 2014's Death of Wolverine, writer Charles Soule and artist Steve McNiven. All we know about the series so far is that Wolverine will be doing with the emergence of a strange new ability. Surely that's not the only thing that's changed in the four years he's been gone.

Click here for more on Wolverine's return.

DC's Heroes Have a New Crisis

DC is kicking off a new Crisis-branded crossover storyline in September, but this one is much more in the vein of Identity Crisis than Infinite Crisis. This new miniseries from writer Tom King and artist Clay Mann introduces Sanctuary, a place where heroes can go to recover from the psychological pressures of the job. Unfortunately, a new murder mystery threatens to destroy this new haven just as it gets off the ground.

Click here for more on Heroes in Crisis.

A History of DC's Crisis Comics 10+ IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 14 The word "Crisis" keeps popping up at DC Comics. Here's a look at every major Crisis story and how it impacted the DC Universe. 01 OF 14 The word "Crisis" keeps popping up at DC Comics. Here's a look at every major Crisis story and how it impacted the DC Universe. A History of DC's Crisis Comics Download Image Captions ESC

Spider-Man PS4 Becomes Marvel Canon

Marvel is gearing up for Spidergeddon, a massive Spider-Man crossover that looks to be a followup to 2014's Spider-Verse. The core miniseries gets an early start in September with a #0 issue from writer Christos Gage and artist Clayton Crain. But the biggest news here is that it focuses on the Peter Parker of the Playstation 4 Spider-Man game. This character is officially becoming a part of the Marvel Comics multiverse, and this issue will even feature variant covers from several Insomniac artists.

Click here for more on the PS4 Spider-Man's comic book debut.

Exit Theatre Mode

Wonder Woman: Earth One Gets a Sequel

Wonder Woman: Earth One proved to be one of the more memorable additions to DC's Earth One line of graphic novels, offering a take that blended the character's Golden Age roots with modern sensibilities. Both writer Grant Morrison and artist Yanick Paquette are back for a sequel. This time around, Diana learns that saving the world is a lot harder when you have to deal with governments and bureaucracy.

X-Men Endings and Beginnings

Wolverine's return isn't the only big development brewing in the X-Men franchise. Both X-Men Gold and X-Men Blue will be ending with their 36th issues in September. Between that and the fact that the miniseries Extermination is exploring the final fate of the time-displaced original X-Men, it seems like Marvel is gearing up for a major franchise overhaul in late 2018.

On the other hand, one recently canceled X-book is making a surprise return in September. Writer Sina Grace and artist Nathan Stockman are relaunching Iceman, with the new series' first arc pairing Bobby Drake and Bishop as they fight to prevent a second Mutant Massacre.

Exit Theatre Mode

New Looks for Batgirl and Batman

The monthly Batgirl series is getting a new creative team and new status quo in September, with writer Mairghread Scott and artist Paul Pelletier taking over the book and removing Barbara Gordon from her usual surroundings in Burnside. Along with these other changes comes a new costume designed by cover artist Sean Gordon Murphy.

And judging from the cover to Batman #55, the Dark Knight may be getting another wardrobe overhaul too. This cover shows Batman wearing a distinctly pre-New 52 costume, complete with external trunks. It's unclear whether this is meant to be a permanent costume change, as Doomsday Clock artist Gary Frank has also suggested that his redesigned costume is meant to become the default look in 2018. Either way, it looks like purple is falling out of fashion in the Bat-family.

Click here for more about Batgirl's new costume.

Thanos Wins Again

We adored Donny Cates and Geoff Shaw's Thanos run, short as it was. Fortunately, it appears that Cates isn't quite done with the Mad Titan. A new one-shot called Thanos Legacy #1 will team Cates with co-writer Gerry Duggan and artist Brian Level. This issue is meant to bridge the gap between "Thanos Wins" and the character's role in Infinity Wars.
