title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
18 Big Things Coming From Marvel and DC in November|http://www.ign.com/comics|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/08/22/18-big-things-coming-from-marvel-and-dc-in-november||2018-08-22|||Share. Things are heating up as the year winds down. Things are heating up as the year winds down.

November is shaping up to be an especially big month for both Marvel and DC. Marvel is bringing back Uncanny X-Men and celebrating a major Avengers milestone, while DC is launching the weekly "Drowned Earth" crossover and debuting some high-profile new creative teams on books like Green Lantern and Wonder Woman.

Scroll down to see all the major new series and storylines hitting comic shops in November.

The Return of Uncanny X-Men

A Marvel Universe without an ongoing Uncanny X-Men series just doesn't feel right. Luckily, Marvel is making up for lost time by bringing back Uncanny as a weekly series under new writers Kelly Thompson, Matthew Rosenberg and Ed Brisson. Similar to the recent Avengers: No Surrender crossover, the new series will ship weekly and feature a rotating team of artists. Taking another page from the Avengers franchise, this storyline is called 'X-Men Disassembled." Is the team due for another major rift?

Click here for more on "X-Men: Disassembled."

Grant Morrison Takes on Green Lantern

Hal Jordan and the Green Lantern Corps just ended an impressive 50-issue run, but don't expect Hal to sit on the sidelines for long. Superstar writer Grant Morrison is making his long-awaited return to DC, teaming with Wonder Woman artist Liam Sharp for a 12-issue monthly series that emphasizes Hal's day-to-day struggles as a space cop.

Click here for more on Morrison and Sharp's The Green Lantern.

Two Major Marvel Finales

Two key Marvel miniseries are wrapping up in November, both of which promise to have major ramifications on their respective franchises. Extermination #5 will reveal the final fate of the original X-Men. Will they make it back to their own timeline? And if they do, how will the timeline of the Marvel Universe be affected?

Then, Death of the Inhumans #5 will show readers what remains of the Inhumans after the bloodshed has stopped. Which characters survive, and will there even be an Inhumans franchise left when all is said and done?

Exit Theatre Mode

Superman's Unlikely Ally

Superman #5 will continue the series' ongoing storyline, with Superman trapped in the Phantom Zone and struggling to prevent Rogol Zaar from destroying Earth as he once did Krypton. But this issue features an unexpected ally for the Man of Steel in the form of General Zod. Apparently Zod's hatred of Zaar is enough to trump his rivalry with Superman, and even draw the villain into the last place in the universe he wants to be.

7 Best Superman Comics to Learn About Krypton 8 IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 08 Check out these comics to learn all there is to know about Superman's homeworld. 01 OF 08 Check out these comics to learn all there is to know about Superman's homeworld. 7 Best Superman Comics to Learn About Krypton Download Image Captions ESC

An Avengers Milestone

Marvel relaunched The Avengers just before the series was set to reach its 700th issue. That's not going to stop Marvel from marking the occasion with the release of The Avengers #10. This oversized issue features several stories from writer Jason Aaron and artists Ed McGuinness, David Marquez and Adam Kubert, all of which look to further Aaron's ongoing narrative in one way or another. This issue also teases another big revelation surrounding the return of Wolverine.

Marvel Comics 2018 Relaunch Lineup 10+ IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 17 Check out every new Marvel comic announced so far. 01 OF 17 Check out every new Marvel comic announced so far. Marvel Comics 2018 Relaunch Lineup Download Image Captions ESC

Wonder Woman's New Creative Team

Green Lantern isn't the only DC series getting a major new creative team in November. Writer G. Willow Wilson and artist Cary Nord are joining forces to chart a new course for Wonder Woman. Their run begins as Diana faces a dual threat from Ares and Grail and the rise of a very different god of war.

Click here for more on Wonder Woman's new direction.

Old Man Logan's Final Adventure

With the original Wolverine returning, is there any place in the Marvel Universe left for Old Man Logan? Possibly not. The series is being relaunched as "Dead Man Logan" in November, with writer Ed Brisson and artist Mike Henderson telling one last, 12-issue story. As Logan faces his impending death, he's intent on settling all unfinished business. And to start, he's ready to get revenge on Mysterio.

Click here for more on Dead Man Logan.

The DCU Drowns

As you may have heard, Aquaman has a movie hitting theaters in December. DC is celebrating the occasion by publishing a weekly Justice League/Aquaman crossover called "Drowned Earth." The crossover deals with the emergence of ancient sea gods who hold a grudge against both Aquaman and Wonder Woman and set about flooding the globe. The opening one-shot, Justice League/Aquaman: Drowned Earth #1, will actually hit stores on Halloween day, with the rest of the story playing out weekly during the month of November.

Click here for more on Drowned Earth.

Ironheart Flies Solo

For a time, Riri Williams was front and center in the Marvel Universe as she inherited the mantle of Iron Man. Things have been fairly quiet on the Riri front since Tony Stark returned, but that's finally changing in November as Marvel gives Ironheart her own solo series. The new book is written by Eve Ewing and drawn by Kevin Libranda and follows Riri's efforts to build her own name as a hero.

Click here for more on Ironheart.
