title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Aquaman: SDCC Exclusive Footage Reveals Classic Costume|http://www.ign.com/movies|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/07/21/aquaman-sdcc-exclusive-footage-confirms-classic-costume-comic-con-2018||2018-07-21|||Share. Black Manta action and ancient Atlantean lore. Black Manta action and ancient Atlantean lore.

Director James Wan showed Comic-Con attendees a lengthy sizzle reel of footage that will not be released to the public during the Aquaman movie panel Saturday. The footage ended with a hero shot of Jason Momoa in the classic gold-orange and green costume his DC Comics counterpart wore.

Here's a rough breakdown of what that extra Aquaman footage revealed:

Shot of a lighthouse in a snowglobe...Atlanna and Tom Curry falling in love and having Arthur. Kidman goes back into the sea after he’s born. "You are the bridge between land and sea."

Adult Arthur and his dad in a bar talking about his special nature.

Grown Aquaman, goes to a sub, Mera telling him to take his place as king

Plane flying over the desert. Aquaman and Mera looking for lost Atlanteans

They find a cave, a gear, Aquaman puts something into it and nothing happens. (in the Sahara)

Mera summons Aquaman’s sweat because water is needed as a catalyst.

Gears start moving, he jokes you could have just peed on it.

A hologram appears, describes the power of Atlantis in the trident. The first king of Atlantis. Reminiscent of Superman at the Fortress of Solitude having Kryptonian history explained to him. The Atlantean king explains the power of the Trident.

Battle between Orrn and Aquaman...the king hologram believes the Trident will unite the kingdoms.

Orrn wants Atlantis to rise to power. Black Manta and his goons show up, prompting a really cool chase scene, long tracking shots, Mera and Aquaman running away from Black Manta and his henchmen

Some action of Nicole Kidman fighting inside what appears to be the lighthouse home. She's in human clothing.

Shot of Aquaman in the classic Aquaman suit

For more Aquaman, watch the new trailer below:

Exit Theatre Mode

San Diego Comic-Con runs from July 19-22, and IGN will be on location to provide you with live coverage from the event. Check out our guide on how to watch Comic-Con 2018 live on IGN, and be sure to bookmark IGN's SDDC hub page, where you'll be able to keep up with all the big trailer reveals, panel reactions, and more.
