title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Best Comic-Con 2018 Exclusive Collectibles|http://www.ign.com/comics|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/07/06/best-comic-con-2018-exclusive-collectibles||2018-07-06|||Share. Better bring your credit card. Better bring your credit card.

Some geeks flock to San Diego Comic-Con every year to see the latest pop culture announcements and trailers. Others are just there for the exclusive swag. This year's Comic-Con is shaping up to be a big one for any fan who craves exclusive goodies. From retro-flavored action figures to rare comic book variants to the most insanely detailed Ninja Turtles toys around, this year has something for everyone.

To help you plan your Comic-on trip, we've put together a helpful guide spotlighting the coolest and most noteworthy exclusives being sold at Comic-Con. Check out our slideshow or scroll down to see what's on tap this summer.

The 31 Best Exclusives of Comic-Con 2018 10+ IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 32 Click through to see the coolest exclusive figures, collectibles, posters and comics you can only buy at this year's Comic-Con. 01 OF 32 Click through to see the coolest exclusive figures, collectibles, posters and comics you can only buy at this year's Comic-Con. The 31 Best Exclusives of Comic-Con 2018 Download Image Captions ESC

Funko Pop! Directors: Taika Waititi Figure

Price: n/a

Where to buy: n/a

Collecting all the exclusive Funk Pop! figures at this year's Comic-Con is going to be a difficult, time-consuming and expensive proposition. It doesn't help that Funko hasn't yet revealed full details as far as pricing and availability. Still, we'd make a point of hunting down this figure depicting Thor: Ragnarok director Taika Waititi in all his eccentric glory.

Dark Supergirl Bishoujo Statue

Price: $84.99

Where to buy: Kotobukiya (Booth #2601)

Kotobukiya's Supergirl statue is easily one of the best additions to their DC Bishoujo line yet. But if you prefer your Kara Danvers to show a little more darkness, then you'll wants this exclusive repaint.

Lost Dharma Enamel Pin 2 Pack

Price: $12

Where to buy: ABC (Booth #4245)

This year marks the first time ABC will be selling its own lineup of exclusive collectibles at the show. We're particularly enamored with this set of pins inspired by Lost's Dharma Initiative.

Masters of the Universe: Laughing Prince Adam Figure

Price: $35

Where to buy: Super7 (Booth #4945)

Super7 recently took over the Masters of the Universe license from Mattel, and so far they haven't disappointed. This flamboyant Prince Adam figure is inspired by the hit viral video and features a unique laughing head sculpt.

Funko Pop! Ride: Mad Max - Fury Road - The Nux Car Set

Price: n/a

Where to buy: n/a

There's been a dearth of Mad Max: Fury Road collectibles, which makes this exclusive set all the more appealing. This set delivers a cutesy take on the unlikely partnership between War Boy Nux and his blood bag.

Greg Capullo: Batman Giclee

Price: $100

Where to buy: Essential Sequential (Booths #4507, 4606, & 4505)

Greg Capullo has long since cemented his reputation as one oft he definitive modern Batman artists. This 16x20 art print showcases his prowess with an eye-popping rendition of the Caped Crusader in black and white.

Bandai Shokugan Super MiniPla Voltron

Price: $70

Where to buy: Bluefin (Booth #1037)

This 7-inch figure packs in pretty much everything you could want in a Voltron toy, including dynamic poseability and the option to separate it into the individual five lions. This SDCC-exclusive version comes with a blazing sword accessory that adds to the overall look.

Crisis on Earth X Statues

Price: $79.99

Where to buy: Icon Heroes (Booth #3345)

Icon Heroes has already captured some of the most popular heroes and villains of the Arrowverse in their line of 1:9 scale statues, and their expanding the roster at SDCC. They'll be offering two exclusive pieces inspired by last year's "Crisis on Earth X" crossover - the Dark Arrow and the Dark-Flash. Sadly, it looks like Overgirl has been left out of this party.

Alien Covenant: David's Drawings Slipcase Set

Price: $50

Where to buy: Titan Entertainment (Booth #5537)

Not only will SDCC serve as an opportunity for fans to buy this impressive-looking sketchbook set ahead of its September release, this version will come with two exclusive art prints. Titan will even be featuring artist signings for those who want to get their books and prints autographed.

Marvel Gallery: X-23 as Wolverine Unmasked Statue

Price: $45

Where to buy: Diamond Select Toys (Booth #2607)

Diamond Select's Marvel Gallery line is a great option for statue collectors on a budget. They'll have no fewer than three exclusive variant statues available as this year's show, but we're most impressed with this unmasked version of the All-New Wolverine.

Limited Edition Solo Print by Russell Walks

Price: $35

Where to buy: ThinkGeek (Booth #3349)

This SDCC-exclusive print is easily one of the coolest Solo posters we've seen, offering a fun take on one of the most death-defying moments in Han Solo's smuggling career.

Hot Wheels DC Superman Action Comics #1

Price: $20

Where to buy: Mattel (Booth #2945)

If you enjoy Hot Wheels and superheroes, this is the perfect storm of collectible goodness. This set recreates the iconic cover to Action Comics #1, with a tiny Superman lifting up a speeding Hot Wheels car. Marvel fans can also hunt down the equally amusing Thanos Copter set.

Star Wars: The Vintage Collection Doctor Aphra Comic Set

Price: $49.99

Where to buy: Hasbro (Booth #3329)

Doctor Aphra and her twisted droids are easily some of the best additions Marvel has made to the Star Wars universe, and now you can own the whole trio in action figure form. This set is even modeled after the classic Kenner three-packs.

Rick and Morty: Pickle Rick Gift Jar Set

Price: $35

Where to buy: Monogram International (Booth #3645)

"Pickle Rick" is the episode that launched a thousand memes, and this set celebrates that goofy adventure. This faux-pickle jar includes four keychain figurines (Pickle Rick, Rat Suit Rick, Morty and Jaguar) and an exclusive "Flip the pickle, Morty!" button.

Marvel Legends: The Defenders Rail Authority 5-Pack

Price: $124.99

Where to buy: Hasbro (Booth #3329)

Netflix fans will want to scope out this lavish boxset featuring the street-level heroes of the MCU. This set includes an exclusive Colleen Wing figure, while most of the other figures feature new accessories or paint schemes to differentiate them from the standard releases. But the best part is the detailed subway car packaging.

Bumblebee Vol. 1 Retro Rock Garage Figures

Price: $60

Where to buy: Hasbro (Booth #3329)

If you're having trouble waiting for this year's Bumblebee movie, this figure set should help tide you over. It features a detailed Bumblebee figured modeled after his updated movie look, as well as two transforming cassette tape bots - Dairu and Uruaz.

Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 1990 Movie 7″ Scale Figures

Price: $125-250

Where to buy: NECA

NECA never fails to amaze when it comes to their TMNT-themed convention exclusives. This year's set focuses on the 1990 live-action movie, offering scaled down versions of their incredible 1:4 scale releases. Those fans with extra money to burn can splurge on the $250 set, which includes a detailed diorama backdrop.

Alien: Hammerhead Tribute Xenomorph ReAction Figure

Price: $15

Where to buy: Super7 (Booth #4945)

This is easily one of the coolest mash-up figures we've ever seen. This Xenomorph figure pays tribute to the classic Kenner Star Wars line with a color scheme inspired by Kenner's Hammerhead figure.

The Gifted: Mutant Vision Poster

Price: Free

Where to buy: Fox (Booth #4229)

You can't beat free, especially when most things at Comic-Con are designed to drain your bank account. Fox will debuting a new series of posters spotlighting the cast of The Gifted: Season 2 at the show, and you can head to their both for a free mini-poster featuring all five images.

Batman #50 Michael Turner Variant Edition

Price: $15

Where to buy: Aspen Comics (Booth #2320)

Though he passed away in 2008, Michael Turner's art is still gracing the covers of some of DC's new releases. Aspen Comics will be selling this Birds of Prey-themed variant of Batman #50 at the show. Hardcore fans can pay more and get a bundle that includes alternate Poison Ivy and Batman-themed covers.

One:12 Batman Beyond Figure

Price: $85

Where to buy: Mezco (Booth #3445)

Mezco's One:12 line of action figures has proved incredibly popular in the last couple years, offering Hot Toys-level detail and mixed media in a smaller, more affordable format. Look for this Batman Beyond figure to be one of the more sought-after collectibles at the show, judging by how quickly it sold out online.

Game of Thrones Dothraki Map Marker

Price: $30

Where to buy: Dark Horse Comics (Booth #2615)

Game of Thrones fans should have no trouble finding some cool swag at the show, but those who crave something a little outside the box should hunt down this piece being offered at the Dark Horse booth. Even if you don't actually have a giant map of Westeros set up in your house, it should make for a handy paperweight or something.

MST3K Bots Go To The Con Lithograph

Price: $25

Where to buy: Shout Factory (Booth #4118)

Shout Factory is all about representing the best of the B-movie world with lavish presentation, and now that includes the cast of Mystery Science Theater 3000. This SDCC-themed poster should be a great memento, and it's also available in T-shirt form.

Aliens: Dead Orbit #1 Convention Exclusive

Price: $5

Where to buy: Dark Horse Comics (Booth #2615)

Aliens: Dead Orbit stands out as one of the best-looking Alien comics ever published, and now it's getting a snazzy new variant cover courtesy of American Vampire artist Rafael Albuquerque. This is very cost-effective way of showing your love for the franchise at Comic-Con.

Star Wars: Yoda (Concept Series) Mini Bust

Price: $100

Where to buy: Gentle Giant (Booth #3513)

It's become an annual SDCC tradition for Gentle Giant to release a new mini-bust based on the concept art of Ralph McQuarrie. This year it's Yoda's turn at bat, with a piece that showcases just how much this 900-year-old Jedi Master's look evolved from page to screen.

Comics Code Authority Patch

Price: $10

Where to buy: CBLDF (Booth #1918)

In between buying elusive collectibles, it's always good to save a little money for the Comic Book Legal Defense Fund. Buying this patch is a win/win. It gets you a neat piece of comic book-inspired decoration and it helps finance the CBLDF's charitable efforts.

The Dragon Stars Series – Saiyan Evolution Pack

Price: $80

Where to buy: Bandai (Booth #3535)

These days, it seems like Goku changes his hairstyle more often than most people change pants. This set of 6.5-inch figures features three different incarnations of the mighty hero from Dragon Ball Super.

Origins: Superman Lithograph by Alex Ross

Price: $50

Where to buy: Alex Ross Art (Booth #2415)

Art collectors could easily blow their entire con budget at Alex Ross' booth alone, as the renowned painter always brings several new exclusive prints to the show. Ross has an impressive lineup of superhero art this year, but the highlight is this lithograph which chronicles the Man of Steel's entire origin story through visuals alone.

Star Wars: The Black Series Centerpiece Rey & Kylo Ren Figures

Price: $119.99

Where to buy: Hasbro (Booth #3329)

The Black Series Centerpiece series blurs the line between action figure and statue, offering dynamic takes on some of the most iconic Star Wars moments. This set features Rey and Kylo Ren during their climactic showdown in The Force Awakens. The detailed base even includes steam effects, if you're so inclined.

Timeless Legends Magic: The Gathering Set

Price: $99

Where to buy: Hasbro (Booth #3329)

The Magic: The Gathering series is returning to the land of Dominaria for its latest expansion, and Hasbro is celebrating with this pricey but enticing collector's set. The set includes five exclusive Planeswalker cards featuring new art from Terese Nielson.

Hot Toys Captain America Sixth Scale Figure (Concept Art Version)

Price: $251

Where to buy: n/a

Hot Toys recently unveiled several convention exclusives for 2018, including this amazing rendition of Captain America. This particular figure is based on an unused Captain America: Civil War concept design by Ryan Meinerding and is the first in a new series called Marvel Studios: The First Ten Years. Technically, this figure hasn't been confirmed as being available at SDCC yet, but based on past years you should be able to find it at the Sideshow Collectibles booth. It's also currently available for pre-order on Sideshow's website.

San Diego Comic-Con runs from July 19-22, and IGN will be on location to provide you with live coverage from the event. Check out our guide on how to watch Comic-Con 2018 live on IGN, and be sure to bookmark IGN's SDDC hub page, where you'll be able to keep up with all the big trailer reveals, panel reactions, and more.

Jesse is a mild-mannered writer for IGN. Allow him to lend a machete to your intellectual thicket by following @jschedeen on Twitter, or Kicksplode on MyIGN.
