title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Captain Marvel: First Official Photo Revealed|http://www.ign.com|http://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/05/captain-marvel-first-official-photo-revealed||2018-09-05|||Share. Marvellous. Marvellous.

The first official image of Brie Larson as Captain Marvel has been revealed.

Revealed on EW's new issue cover, the superhero's suit is familiar, but has been tweaked from the comics for its MCU debut:

EW's report confirms that this is not a traditional origin story, beginning after Carol Danvers already has her powers, and has joined a Kree military team called Starforce. Taking place in the '90s, Samuel L. Jackson will play a younger Nick Fury, complete with both eyes and a desk job at S.H.I.E.L.D.

The report also confirms that Jude Law (as a Kree military commander) and Ben Mendelsohn (as Talos, the head of a Skrull invasion of Earth) will appear in the film. And, of course, Captain Marvel will return to Earth to find out about her past (presumably revealing the origin of those powers) and fight off the shape-shifting Skrull threat.

Captain Marvel: Every Character Confirmed 10+ IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 12 Click through to see every character and actor confirmed for the long-awaited Captain Marvel movie. 01 OF 12 Click through to see every character and actor confirmed for the long-awaited Captain Marvel movie. Captain Marvel: Every Character Confirmed Download Image Captions ESC

Describing the character, Larson says: “She can’t help but be herself. She can be aggressive, and she can have a temper, and she can be a little invasive and in your face. She’s also quick to jump to things, which makes her amazing in battle because she’s the first one out there and doesn’t always wait for orders. But the [not] waiting for orders is, to some, a character flaw.”

EW has also released a shot from the film, although it doesn't reveal a great deal more:

Image via EW

There's been precious little to go on before this reveal. We've seen the film's logo on some merch, we know that it's already been wrapped, and that the character will be appearing to help out in Avengers 4. We'll find out more ahead of release in an MCU prelude comic, coming this November.

Captain Marvel is due to be released on March 8, 2019.

Exit Theatre Mode

Joe Skrebels is IGN's UK News Editor, and he cannot wait for the soundtrack to this film. Pavement, please. Follow him on Twitter.
