title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Captain Marvel: The MCU's Skrulls Have Finally Been Revealed|http://www.ign.com/movies|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/08/captain-marvel-the-mcus-skrulls-have-finally-been-revealed||2018-09-08|||Why the Major Changes to Captain Marvel Have Us Excited

Why the Major Changes to Captain Marvel Have Us Excited

Share. The classic alien villains have been rumored to be joining the Marvel movieverse for years, and now they make their debut in Captain Marvel. The classic alien villains have been rumored to be joining the Marvel movieverse for years, and now they make their debut in Captain Marvel.

The Skrulls! Those nasty, scaly-chinned aliens have been plaguing the heroes of Marvel Comics for decades, but for many fans they've been conspicuous by their absence in the Marvel Cinematic Universe... until now. Finally, the Skrulls will appear in Captain Marvel, with Ben Mendelsohn (Rogue One) playing their leader, Talos, who is presumably the Big Bad of the highly anticipated Brie Larson film.

EW dropped the first official images from the Captain Marvel movie today, and one of them was the debut of what the MCU's Skrulls are all about. Check it out:

Captain Marvel's Skrulls (image via EW)

It wasn't that long ago that the Skrulls seemed to be off-limits in the MCU due to the complicated rights issues of some Marvel characters. Were their movie rights in the hands of 20th Century Fox, who also had the rights to the Fantastic Four (since the aliens first appeared in Fantastic Four #2)?

In 2016, James Gunn cleared things up a bit when he said that some specific Skrulls fall under the Fox banner but "the Skrulls as a whole are co-owned" by Marvel and Fox. (Not that it will matter for much longer once the Disney/Fox buyout is completed.)

There were lots of rumors leading up to the release of the first Avengers movie which indicated that the Skrulls would appear in that film, possibly serving as Loki's invading army. And indeed, that kind of came to be... Loki's allies in the film were the Chitauri, who originated in the comics as the Ultimate Universe's version of the Skrulls (or one version, anyway). So they weren't the Skrulls, but they were the Skrulls. Ish.

Regardless, now fans are finally getting the Skrulls on the big screen. They've been a huge part of the comics for decades, with the famed storyline "Invasion" being of particular note (and perhaps a great source for adaptation in the MCU).

Exit Theatre Mode

It'll be fun to see what Captain Marvel does with these notorious alien menaces when the film hits on March 8, 2019...

For even more on the Skrulls, be sure to check out our explainer piece on their history and importance in the Marvel universe.

Captain Marvel: Every Character Confirmed 10+ IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 12 Click through to see every character and actor confirmed for the long-awaited Captain Marvel movie. 01 OF 12 Click through to see every character and actor confirmed for the long-awaited Captain Marvel movie. Captain Marvel: Every Character Confirmed Download Image Captions ESC

Talk to Executive Editor Scott Collura on Twitter at @ScottCollura, or listen to his Star Trek podcast, Transporter Room 3. Or do both!
