title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Castle Rock Episode 9 Review: "Henry Deaver"|http://www.ign.com/tv|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/06/castle-rock-episode-9-review-henry-deaver||2018-09-06|Review By||Share. The more Henrys, the better. The more Henrys, the better.

Warning: FULL SPOILERS follow for Castle Rock Season 1, Episode 9, titled "Henry Deaver."

Castle Rock goes interdimensional in its penultimate episode, titled "Henry Deaver," with a reveal that turns everything we thought we knew about the story upside down. This week's outing also effectively tackles one of Stephen King's more commonly used tropes concerning small-town America and its dark underbelly.

Throughout the previous eight episodes, creators Sam Shaw and Dustin Thomason have been cryptic regarding The Kid's (Bill Skarsgard) true identity. For Ruth, he was the reincarnation of her dead husband, and for Warden Lacey (Terry O'Quinn), the devil. Both explanations are hard to swallow, but this is the Kingverse after all, so anything is possible, right? But episode 8 offers an alternative explanation: there is another version of Castle Rock that has a different version of The Kid, or "Henry Deaver," as we soon discover.

While this sudden revelation of another universe is undoubtedly a head scratcher, it does provide us with some valuable information regarding the nature of the schisma and what happens to those who travel through it. To start, Henry (both versions) is not the devil. Again, going to back to King's use of small towns as a backdrop for horrible events to unfold, it appears that all of the bad things that happen in Castle Rock are simply a result of human nature.

Every Stephen King Easter Egg in Hulu's Castle Rock 10+ IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 55 Hulu's new horror series Castle Rock isn't based on a Stephen King story, it's based on EVERY Stephen King story. Here are all the references to King's other books and films that we could find. 01 OF 55 Hulu's new horror series Castle Rock isn't based on a Stephen King story, it's based on EVERY Stephen King story. Here are all the references to King's other books and films that we could find. Every Stephen King Easter Egg in Hulu's Castle Rock Download Image Captions ESC

The biblical undertones of Henry being a demonic figure don't fit the facts, especially when Pastor Deaver, via old tape recordings, recounts a list of atrocities that have befallen the town. Sure, bad things happen, like the young woman who carved up her family 200 years prior, or the school bus being hit by a train, but when observed on a macro level, these events don't seem all that different from other tragedies around the world. Castle Rock may be a special place, but it's probably not a direct target of an ancient evil.

Instead, it's most likely the power of the schisma - or Voice of God, as some call it -that affects space and time. Young Henry (the one who disappeared from our "main" universe as a kid) upon arriving in this new reality, seemed very aware of what was going on and that he needed to get back to Castle Lake so he could travel home. So why doesn't the Henry (Andre Holland) he grew up to become remember these events? Could this be a side effect of traveling between dimensions? Either way, both Henrys seemingly have powers tied to their connection with the schisma, but their ultimate goals remain a mystery.

Aside from all of the mind-bending and universe-shattering effects of Henry's interdimensional travel, Episode 9 is a lot of fun to watch because it gives this talented cast new personalities to play with. Even though Sissy Spacek (Ruth) and Scott Glenn (Pangborn) were missing this week, it's enjoyable to see Molly as the most popular young lady in town, while still retaining her unique abilities without the use of heavy medication to keep the voices inside her head quiet.

Exit Theatre Mode

Even Bill Skarsgard's character actually says more than a sentence or two, which is a welcome change from his usual cryptic mumbling. His search for a cure to his mother's Alzheimer's is fascinating as well, and unlike his criminal-defending counterpart, this version of Henry isn't actively keeping his distance from Ruth and Alan. It's just too bad we only have one more episode to go. It would have been cool to stay in this version of Castle Rock a little longer.
