title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Complete Guide to Spider-Man's Preorder Bonuses|http://www.ign.com/comics|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/06/spider-man-preorder-release-date-collectors-edition||2018-09-06|||Share. Friendly neighborhood preorder guide. Friendly neighborhood preorder guide.

If you buy something through this post, IGN may get a share of the sale. For more, read our Terms of Use.

Spider-Man releases exclusively for PS4 on Friday, September 7, meaning you still have time to preorder. Preordering no longer has the same money-saving draw as it once did (unless your GCU membership is still active), but it will entitle you to some exclusive benefits. Let's take a look at who has the best price and what preorder exclusives (if any) are on offer for Spider-Man for PS4:

Marvel's Spider-Man Preorder Bonuses

Anyone preordering the $59.99 standard edition of Marvel's Spider-Man from most retailers gains access to the following items:

Spider-Man Spidey Suit Pack

Spider-Drone Gadget

Spider-Man PS4 Avatar

Spider-Man PS4 Theme

5 Extra Skill Points

Marvel's Spider-Man Digital Deluxe Edition

The $79.99 digital deluxe edition includes the main game and the 3 chapters in the "Marvel’s Spider-Man: The City that Never Sleeps Series," according to Insomniac Games. The Spider-Man DLC comes in 3 parts, details of which were revealed by Insomniac at the end of August. The first part, The Heist, comes out October 23 and follows Black Cat and includes a new enemy faction and costumes. Part two, Turf Wars, comes out in November and the third part releases in December. Details for the remaining two parts of the Marvel's Spider-Man: The City that Never Sleeps series haven't been announced.

Additional missions

Additional characters

Additional suits for Spider-Man

All Pre-Order Bonus Content (if preordered before release)

Marvel's Spider-Man Collector's Edition

In addition to the full game and the preorder bonuses, the $149 Marvel's Spider-Man collector's edition includes the following:

Steelbook

White Spider Sticker

Marvel's Spider-Man Artbook

Collector's Edition Marvel's Spider-Man Statue by Gentle Giant

Marvel's Spider-Man: The City that Never Sleeps DLC

Where to Preorder Marvel's Spider-Man

Exit Theatre Mode

Walmart

Amazon

Standard edition: $59.99

Digital Deluxe edition: $79.99

Amazon (UK)

Standard edition: £49.99

Digital Deluxe edition: £69.99

GameStop

Best Buy

If you preorder the standard or collector's editions of Marvel's Spider-Man through Best Buy, it throws in a free copy of Destiny 2 in addition to your standard Spider-Man preorder bonuses.

GAME (UK)

Standard edition: £49.99

Marvel's Spider-Man Special Edition with Only at GAME Postcards: £59.99

Base (UK)
