title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
DC's Latest Batman Controversy Involves a Familiar Problem|http://www.ign.com/comics|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/08/14/dcs-latest-batman-controversy-involves-a-familiar-problem-between-the-panels||2018-08-14|||Share. Batman is the one who will suffer. Batman is the one who will suffer.

The Batman comic book franchise may be one of DC's top-sellers, but it's been no stranger to controversy and behind-the-scenes creative tensions over the past few years. The past week has been an unfortunate reminder of that fact, as veteran artist Matt Wagner has lashed out against DC editorial over for an abrupt decision they made regarding Batman #54.

This is the latest in a series of incidents involving significant creator/editorial friction at DC. As much as the company has made clear strides in the two years since the start of DC Rebirth, this is an all too familiar problem that simply didn't need to exist in the first place.

This creative tension was made apparent last week when Wagner spoke out on Facebook, decrying DC's abrupt decision to replace his colorist (and son) Brennan Wagner.

"I finished work on the issue several weeks ago and Brennan was nearing completion on his end of things, producing his typically beautiful, thoughtful and evocative color renderings over top of my B&W art," Wagner posted. "But just yesterday I received word from Batman group editor Jamie S. Rich that the DC 'powers that be' found Brennan’s coloring to be too different from their regular fare (because, y’know…different is bad) and so have decided to pull him off the book and have the entire issue re-colored by one of their in-house colorists—at this point, I don’t even know who that will be."

This is just the latest example of major creative tensions at DC. In 2013, JH Williams and Haden Blackman walked off Batwoman after DC editorial backed out of previously established story plans involving the wedding of Kate Kane and Maggie Sawyer. In 2012, Gail Simone was abruptly fired from Batgirl, though she was rehired shortly thereafter. The company has established an unfortunate pattern of abruptly changing plans and upsetting and alienating creators in the process.

Wagner was quick to point out that both Rich and writer Tom King were blameless in the situation, instead planting blame higher up in DC's editorial ranks. In a subsequent post he clarified, "Jamie S. Rich is a sharp and supportive editor and I thought Tom King’s script for this issue was both clever and humane. I heartily enjoyed drawing it and Brennan loved coloring it. What I regret is accepting a gig that would subject our creative efforts to such arbitrary and heavy-handed corporate intervention. I’m no stranger to mainstream publishing … I know how things work. But I thought that they’d treat us both with more respect … and unfortunately, I was wrong."

Exit Theatre Mode

When we reached out to DC for clarification on exactly why Brennan Wagner was replaced, we were told that the decision was made because Wagner's coloring style was too different relative to the rest of the series and that a more consistent tone was needed for the sake of the collected edition and the general aesthetic of the book. According to DC, Wagner was given the opportunity to re-color the issue and declined, at which point he was paid for the full assignment.

We then reached out to the elder Wagner, who has a different take on DC's timetable. He told us that neither he nor Brennan were ever informed about the need for color consistency prior to Brennan's firing.

"Initially, we were only told that Brennan was being pulled off the book and replaced." Wagner said, clarifying that the offer to have Brennan re-color the issue only came after Wagner made his initial Facebook post last week. Wager described the offer as "too little, too late" given that both he and Brennan had already shifted gears to work on the next chapter of Mage: The Hero Denied.

Wagner also made it clear that the root of his displeasure with DC stems not just from their lack of communication, but what he perceives as a lack of respect for a decades-old working relationship. He said, "Did they really think I wouldn't be upset when they fired my longtime collaborator and son?". Further adding fuel to the fire, in Wagner's mind, is the fact that the plot of this issue is very much about the relationship between fathers and sons.

The 22 Best Marvel, DC and Indie Comics of 2018 (So Far) 10+ IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 23 From superheroes to creator-owned dramas, these are the most impressive comic books of 2018 so far. 01 OF 23 From superheroes to creator-owned dramas, these are the most impressive comic books of 2018 so far. The 22 Best Marvel, DC and Indie Comics of 2018 (So Far) Download Image Captions ESC

To be clear, DC is well within its rights to hire and fire whomever it chooses on these projects. Nor is it realistic to expect creators and editors to always get along on every assignment. The problem is the frequency in which these conflicts seem to arise and their tendency to blow up into major scandals online, as in the case of the Batwoman walk-off or other significant creator conflicts during the early months of the New 52 relaunch.

Particularly in the case of Brennan Wagner's firing, it's not clear why DC needed to put itself in this position in the first place. It's understandable why coloring consistency would be such a high priority for DC. With the series shipping twice a month and different artists constantly rotating in and out, coloring is one of the few ways to maintain a certain level of visual cohesion. The question is why, as Wagner says, this apparently wasn't discussed when he and his son were first brought on board. The two have been collaborating on Mage: The Hero Denied for a year at this point, so it's not as if DC editorial didn't have some indication of what to expect from their collaborative work.

The real tragedy here is that DC seems to have permanently damaged its relationship with Matt Wagner, a well-respected creator who's crafted some very memorable stories both on his own (Grendel, Mage) and working for DC. Regardless of DC's motivation for switching colorists, surely there must have been a more tactful way to resolve a situation involving a father/son collaboration. More communication early on may well have prevented this breakdown in a key creator relationship and avoided a PR headache for DC.

Not to mention that King's Batman run may well suffer thanks to this controversy. The series has featured some of DC's biggest and brightest artists in recent years. But with the likes of Clay Mann, Mitch Gerads and Joelle Jones branching out into other books, DC needs fresh creative blood to keep that momentum going. The Wagners offered a significant boost to that relatively depleted talent pool. But now the prospect of either Wagner working for DC again in any capacity, much less returning to this series, seems pretty dim.

As with past editorial controversies, this sends a poor message to other creators who may be considering bringing their talents to DC. With the elder Wagner so clearly and publicly unhappy about his most recent DC project, how many other indie creators are now second-guessing whether DC is the right fit for them?

Again, DC has made a great many strides in recent years thanks to the advent of DC Rebirth and what seems, from the outside at least, to be a more positive working environment for everyone involved. Unfortunately, this latest controversy proves that the company could still be doing more to communicate and maintain strong relationships with veteran creators.

"Between the Panels" is a monthly column from Jesse Schedeen that focuses on the world of comics. You can see more of his thoughts on comics and pop culture by following @jschedeen on Twitter, or Kicksplode on MyIGN.
