title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
DCEU Movies: Every Upcoming Film in the DC Universe|http://www.ign.com/comics|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/07/12/dc-extended-universe-every-upcoming-movie||2018-07-12|||Share. From Wonder Woman 1984 to The Batman, here's what DC and Warner Bros. have in store for us. From Wonder Woman 1984 to The Batman, here's what DC and Warner Bros. have in store for us.

As the DC movie universe (or the DCEU as fans have come to call it) prepares to unleash its next wave on fans with -- we expect -- Aquaman, Shazam!, and Wonder Woman 1984 info-dumps at San Diego Comic-Con, what better time to catch up on the state of the DC Extended Universe union?

Unlike Marvel though, DC's plans don't include synergy across all mediums. Their movies, while containing many of the same characters, do not cross over with the CW TV-verse that includes Arrow, The Flash, Legends of Tomorrow, and Supergirl, or standalone DC shows like Gotham. Yes, DC's betting big and doubling up on their heroes, but the TV realm is another story entirely. Just FYI!

So let's take a look at the road ahead for the DCEU. From The Batman to Justice League Dark to Green Lantern Corps and beyond, sift through the following slideshow of all of DC's planned movies. Some of these are definitely happening, some are in development, and some have big questions marks surrounding them, but all could wind up on the big screen sooner rather than later...

DC Extended Universe: Every Upcoming Movie 10+ IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 23 Click through the slideshow for DC’s entire planned slate of films. Some are scheduled and have release dates while others are still in development and subject to change -- and may not happen at all. 01 OF 23 Click through the slideshow for DC’s entire planned slate of films. Some are scheduled and have release dates while others are still in development and subject to change -- and may not happen at all. DC Extended Universe: Every Upcoming Movie Download Image Captions ESC

Which DC Extended Universe movies are you most looking forward to? And which characters or titles do you want to see DC tackle in live-action next? Let's discuss in the comments!
