title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Donut County Review|http://www.ign.com/wireless|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/08/27/donut-county-review?read||2018-08-27|Review By||Share. Drop it like it’s hot. Drop it like it’s hot.

This year I’ve become an android, an exiled boy king, a vampire, a headless warrior, an anthropomorphic toadstool, the Grim Reaper, an adorable yarn creature, a pirate, an ex-yakuza, a monster hunter and, of course, the God of War. Such are the wonders of video games. And now, thanks to Donut County, I can add “ever-expanding sink-hole” to that list.

Yes, in Donut County you literally control a hole in the ground. You move it around, looking for slightly smaller prey, eating up donuts, bricks, and clumps of grass, feeding its insatiable appetite and expanding it, which then lets you swallow larger things – chairs, chickens, boulders, cars, houses. It’s a wonderfully alluring concept and, while Donut County’s running time is brief, it has a whole lot of fun with its central mechanic and with its world.

Indeed, it’s the narrative wrapping that is most fascinating about Donut County – and that most stamps this as the vision of solo developer Ben Esposito. The mechanics, after all, could lend themselves to a relatively dry puzzle game, but instead Donut County is set in an oddball, charming, and tongue-in-cheek world of anthropomorphic animals.

A Hole Lot of Donut County 10+ IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 13 01 OF 13 A Hole Lot of Donut County Download Image Captions ESC

We join these animal denizens in a makeshift camp deep beneath the earth – victims of the holes ravaging the town. Each cutscene introduces a new character, but it’s the friendship between Mira and BK – a girl and a raccoon – that forms the heart of Donut County’s quirky sensibility. Their back and forths about whether BK is, in fact, responsible for the holes are adorable, and lead directly to flashback levels where you get to drop everything from restaurants to ranger’s stations into the ground. It’s a fun story overall; surreal but also a sly commentary on the gamification of life.

“ There’s something very zen about 'cleaning up' each level.

Levels are typically self-contained, but with several areas to move through; your hole steadily grows in size until you’re able to swallow even the biggest of obstacles. Each mission introduces its own twists on the core concept, and a big part of the fun is discovering the ways you’re able to use a hole to actively interact with the world. How can I hit that switch? How can I use these fireworks? How can I rile up that ranger? Oh, and what happens when you drop a bunch of rabbits in the same hole?

A little experimentation will always get you through, but the fact that Donut County’s puzzling is quite lightweight largely works in its favour. Instead of hitting roadblocks, you can simply kick back and enjoy the quirky world and soothing gameplay. There’s something very zen about “cleaning up” each level.

Exit Theatre Mode

I enjoyed cruising through each new setting, but less than two hours after I set out, Donut County was over. As the work of a single person (with a little help) Donut County is impressive, but it does feel like there’s a wealth of untapped potential here. I’d have loved bonus challenges outside the story – even if they were just remixes of existing levels, or, alternatively, to see where the more adventurous ideas could be taken. Towards the end of the story, for instance, there’s a set of levels where I was moving from room to room in a larger complex. It was a cool glimpse of where more complicated levels could go.
