title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Every Marvel Netflix Season Review (So Far)|http://www.ign.com/tv|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/07/every-marvel-netflix-season-review-so-far||2018-09-07|||Share. From Daredevil to The Defenders to Iron Fist, here's how we've rated every season of the Marvel Netflix shows to date. From Daredevil to The Defenders to Iron Fist, here's how we've rated every season of the Marvel Netflix shows to date.

Now that the second season of Marvel's Iron Fist has been released on Netflix (read our review here), the darker, grittier, we-barely-acknowledge-we're-part-of-the-MCU side of the MCU has six shows and 10 seasons to its name. Not bad in less than four years (Daredevil debuted in April of 2015). But how do the shows compare with each other in terms of quality?

Well, we've put together the following slideshow which breaks down the scores IGN gave to each season of Daredevil, Jessica Jones, Luke Cage, Iron Fist, The Defenders and The Punisher so far. Scroll through for the full list...

Every Netflix Marvel Series Review 10+ IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 10 Reviewed by Matt Fowler -- Daredevil may have spun a few wheels while trying to figure out its endgame (and how to leave things off for the yet-to-come Marvel/Netflix shows), but overall it was a thrilling, ultra-satisfying take on Daredevil's material and lore. One that, like Favreau's first Iron Man film, helped breathe new life and fandom into a somewhat B-tier Marvel character. Despite the almost polar opposite tones. 01 OF 10 Reviewed by Matt Fowler -- Daredevil may have spun a few wheels while trying to figure out its endgame (and how to leave things off for the yet-to-come Marvel/Netflix shows), but overall it was a thrilling, ultra-satisfying take on Daredevil's material and lore. One that, like Favreau's first Iron Man film, helped breathe new life and fandom into a somewhat B-tier Marvel character. Despite the almost polar opposite tones. Every Netflix Marvel Series Review Download Image Captions ESC

The Marvel Netflix shows are far from done, of course. Daredevil Season 3, Jessica Jones Season 3, and The Punisher Season 2 are all in the works.

For more on Marvel's Iron Fist, check out our explanation of the post-credits scene, ponder the question of whether the Marvel Netflix shows take place before or after Infinity War, or learn about the comics history of this seasons's villains: Steel Serpent and Typhoid Mary.
