title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Iron Fist Season 2 Ending Explained: What That Twist Means for Season 3|http://www.ign.com/tv|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/08/iron-fist-season-2-ending-explained-colleen-powers-danny-double-fist?read||2018-09-08|||Share. We might be about to meet ANOTHER Iron Fist. We might be about to meet ANOTHER Iron Fist.

This article contains spoilers for the Iron Fist Season 2 finale, titled "A Duel of Iron." Read our review of Iron Fist Season 2 here.

Iron Fist completely upended its own mythology in the Season 2 finale, imbuing Colleen Wing with the titular power from the Heart of the Dragon after Davos was defeated, and sending Danny Rand and Ward Meachum on a quest to learn more about the history of the Iron Fist in Asia (and hopefully "find themselves" in the process).

When we caught up with them in Japan "months later," Danny and Ward were attempting to track down the man who shipped the mummified corpse of a former Iron Fist to New York - a man named Orson Randall. Apparently, the duo had been searching for Orson everywhere from Hong Kong to Jakarta, where Danny apparently stole a couple of handguns with special powers from one of Orson's shipments. When fired, the pistol's glowing bullets were somehow able to meet, merge and disintegrate a shot fired at Danny, as if controlled by his will.

In the comics, Orson Randall was a former Iron Fist known for his ability to channel his chi through his guns and use it as ammunition. He also stole the book containing the history of the Iron Fist from K'un-Lun, which means that if Danny wants answers about the Iron Fist's legacy, Orson Randall might be his best bet, as long as the mystical city remains missing. But is it the power inside Orson's guns that allows Danny to once again channel the power of the Iron Fist - meaning that without them he's still powerless - or did he find some other way to regain the ability without taking it away from Colleen during his travels with Ward? We'll probably have to wait until Iron Fist Season 3 to find out for sure.

Back in New York, we saw Colleen keeping the streets safe with her new powers, and like Orson's guns, she's apparently able to channel her chi into her katana to help her take down bad guys. It's worth noting that Colleen has never wielded the power of the Iron Fist in the comics, but a seemingly random story that Colleen's mother told her as a child could prove to be the link between the katana-swinging badass and her ability to take on the mantle of the Immortal Iron Fist in the show, despite not being trained in K'un-Lun like Danny and Davos.

In both the show and the comics, Wu Ao-Shi, the Pirate Queen of Pinghai Bay, was far from just a fairytale - she was a real hero from K'un-Lun who also earned the power of the Iron Fist and, legend has it, was able to imbue her weapons with her chi, including firing arrows that made her enemies fall "as if lightning from God had destroyed them." Who described her that way in the comics? None other than Orson Randall.

So if Colleen's mother knew Wu Ao-Shi's story, it's probably a fairly safe bet that she was at least born and raised in K'un-Lun, and possibly a direct descendant of Wu Ao-Shi herself. And if Danny's seeking out Orson, chances are we'll be learning a lot more about the Iron Fists of the past - and Colleen's own history - in Iron Fist Season 3.

Iron Fist Season 2 is now streaming on Netflix.
