title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Iron Fist Season 2 Post-Credits Scene Teases Daredevil Season 3|http://www.ign.com|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/07/iron-fist-season-2-daredevil-post-credits-scene-season-3-teaser||2018-09-07|||Share. Darkness only responds to darkness. Darkness only responds to darkness.

Spoilers for the Iron Fist Season 2 post-credits scene follow.

The end of The Defenders left Matt Murdock in a pretty dark place (having a building collapse on top of you will do that), and it's only going to get darker, if the post-credits scene for Iron Fist Season 2 is any indication.

We last saw Matt convalescing at a convent, but in the first footage from Daredevil Season 3, he's at least upright again (although still every bit as battered and bruised as he usually is during a typical season of Daredevil). Unfortunately, the formerly optimistic hero seems to be having a bit of an identity crisis.

Exit Theatre Mode

In the post-credits teaser, Matt sits in a confessional, rosary beads clutched in his hand, as he shares his doubts about the effectiveness of his role - not as Daredevil, but as Matt Murdock. He's not wearing his Daredevil costume - instead, he's back in the first iteration of his disguise, with a black hood over the top of face and plain black clothes.

"I once believed justice could be found in a court of law, and in the light of day," he says. "But I was fooling myself. Darkness only responds to darkness. And the truth is, I’d rather die as the devil than live as Matt Murdock."

After the events of The Defenders, the rest of his friends and allies believe that Matt is dead, and this teaser certainly seems to hint that our tortured hero doesn't intend to enlighten them about his resurrection.

Light spoilers for the Daredevil "Born Again" comic book arc ahead...

The end of The Defenders also name-dropped "Maggie," who, we assume, is another nun at the convent. Fans of Frank Miller and David Mazzucchelli's "Born Again" arc in the Daredevil comics know the significance of that name, but that same storyline also sees Daredevil being forced to abandon his life as Matt Murdock after the Kingpin learns his secret identity. While this teaser seems to imply that Matt has a bit more choice in the matter, we could see a twist on that arc in Season 3 - although it's telling that Matt isn't wearing his Daredevil costume or his civilian clothes in the clip.

Here's what Daredevil star Charlie Cox had to say about the ending of The Defenders and that "Born Again" reference after the show premiered:

"Born Again is one of my favorite Daredevil stories, so it was cool to have that moment. And like I said, I have no idea, going forward, what that means. But, what is interesting about it is that, in some ways, he may get to start fresh. Everyone thinks he’s dead. So he kind of needs to start over in some ways, and I’m excited to find out how he decides the best way to re-engage in life is, having had this moment."

Netflix has yet to set a premiere date for Daredevil Season 3, but it's expected to drop before the end of 2018.
