title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia Premiere Sneak Peek: Who's the New Dennis?|http://www.ign.com/tv|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/05/its-always-sunny-in-philadelphia-season-13-premiere-dennis-watch-video-ign-first||2018-09-05|||Share. Cheers to the new gang! Cheers to the new gang!

All September long, IGN is spotlighting the best TV coming your way in the 2018-2019 season. Today we're taking a look at FXX's beloved comedy, It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia, which premieres its 13th season on Sept. 5 with the gang attempting to find a new candidate to replace Dennis (Glenn Howerton), following his departure in the Season 12 finale.

The Season 13 premiere of It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia marks a big change in the status quo for the gang - Dennis Reynolds has left to become a father in North Dakota, leaving a hole in Paddy's Pub that our characters (okay, mostly just Mac) are desperate to fill.

Mac's strategy for coping without Dennis involves a lifelike sex doll of his departed roommate (but don't worry, he's not gonna have sex with it, obviously), while the rest of the gang is obsessed with Cindy, a "new, ethnically diverse female member of the gang who can successfully pull off scams" even better than Dennis could. (If you've seen the Season 13 trailer, you've probably already got a pretty good idea of who's playing her.)

Continuing our IGN First TV preview, we've got an exclusive first look at a scene from the premiere, "The Gang Makes Paddy’s Great Again," as the gang debates who should become their official replacement for Dennis.

Exit Theatre Mode

But fans of the golden god shouldn't despair, as stars (and executive producers) Rob McElhenney and Charlie Day recently confirmed we'll be seeing plenty of Dennis (or an approximation of him) during Season 13.

"Dennis -- or some form of Dennis -- [fans] can see in the show a lot," Day told IGN at the Television Critics Association summer press tour. "The type of Dennis that they see -- and I can't always guarantee that it will be the actor -- but the spirit of Dennis will be there."

Tune in to see how the show deals with its Dennis-shaped hole when It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia Season 13 premieres Wednesday, September 5 at 10 p.m. ET/PT on FXX.
