title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Kingdom Hearts' Mobile Game Will Let You Unlock a Keyblade in Kingdom Hearts 3|http://www.ign.com/xbox-one|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/07/kingdom-hearts-mobile-game-will-let-you-unlock-a-keyblade-in-kingdom-hearts-3?read||2018-09-07|||Share. Square Enix is bringing back the age of Tiger Electronics. Square Enix is bringing back the age of Tiger Electronics.

Fans who've been waiting years for Kingdom Hearts 3 won't get to play the full game until next year, but they can at least experience some of its minigames right now.

Square Enix has released an update to the Kingdom Hearts Union Cross mobile game, which brings the previously announced Kindom Hearts 3's Classic Kingdom minigames. The minigames, which you can see in the gallery below, are modeled after portable LCD gaming systems from the '80s.

Kingdom Hearts Union Classic Kingdom 10+ IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 10 01 OF 10 Kingdom Hearts Union Classic Kingdom Download Image Captions ESC

And there's more reason for fans to play than just the intrinsic value of enjoying the minigames themselves. By playing Classic Kingdom in Kingdom Hearts Union, players can become eligible to unlock the Starlight Keyblade item in Kingdom Hearts 3 when it releases.

Square didn't detail exactly what players will need to do in order to become eligible, saying only that they must meet "certain requirements." Players who complete the unknown requirements will receive a code for the Starlight Keyblade within the Kingdom Hearts Union app, where they'll be able to choose which console version to unlock the item in.

It's been an interesting week for Kingdom Hearts, with fans being led to believe Eminem's new album sampled music from the franchise before learning that that wasn't the case. That followed another misleading tidbit from last month, when a mistaken report incorrectly listed how long Kingdom Hearts 3 will be.

Kingdom Hearts 3 will be released on Jan. 29, 2019 for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.

For more on Kingdom Hearts, check out a discussion on the upcoming Kingdom Hearts 3 from a die-hard fan and a newcomer, straight out of PAX West. You can also check out the recently revealed Sora Nendroid figure.

Nick Santangelo is a freelance writer based in Philadelphia. He loves video games and sports, but not sports video games. Follow him on Twitter.
