title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
LEGO Builds Life-Size, Drivable Technic Bugatti Chiron|http://www.ign.com/tech|https://www.ign.com/videos/2018/08/30/lego-builds-full-size-drivable-bugatti-chiron||2018-08-30|||Share. Because why not? Because why not?

LEGO has built its first life-size, drivable car - and decided to make it a Bugatti, no less.

Fully detailed on LEGO’s website, the LEGO Technic is as close to a 1:1 copy of the Bugatti Chiron as possible, built from LEGO Technic elements and powered by the same motor technology used in standard LEGO Technic models. Check out a video of it in action: just don’t expect it to go too fast.

The LEGO Technic Bugatti Chiron was built with over 1 million LEGO Technic pieces, with more than 339 different types of these elements in use, and no glue holding them together. Weighing over 1.5 tons, the car’s engine contains 2,304 LEGO Power Functions motors, 4,032 LEGO Technic gear wheels and 2,016 LEGO Technic cross axles. The car also has a functional rear spoiler and speedometer made from LEGO Technic pieces.

LEGO claims the car has a theoretical performance of over 5.3 horsepower and an estimated torque of 92 Nm. Over 13,438 man hours went into the development and construction of the vehicle.

The idea for building this life-size model came from the LEGO Technic design team after completing a 1:8 scale model of the Chiron. The full-size LEGO Bugatti was built in the LEGO facility in Kladno, Czech Republic with a core team of 16 specialists. When testing the car, LEGO took the creation to the Ehra Lessien track outside Wolfsburg, Germany (where the original Bugatti Chiron was tested) and had the test drive performed by Andy Wallace (Bugatti’s official test driver).

LEGO Technic Bugatti Chiron 7 IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 07 Photo Credit: LEGO 01 OF 07 Photo Credit: LEGO LEGO Technic Bugatti Chiron Download Image Captions ESC

The 1:8 scale model of the LEGO Technic Bugatti Chiron can be found on LEGO’s website for $350 USD.

In more LEGO news, check out this extremely detailed LEGO Hogwarts Castle, and see which Overwatch characters were teased for the upcoming official LEGO sets.

Colin Stevens is a freelance writer for IGN, and he doesn’t know why he expected that LEGO car to go faster, he just did. Follow him on Twitter.
