title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Lifetime's You Premiere Sneak Peek: An Addictive Thriller About Online Obsession|http://www.ign.com/tv|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/06/lifetimes-you-premiere-sneak-peek-an-addictive-thriller-about-online-obsession-ign-first?watch||2018-09-06|||Share. Cue up "Every Breath You Take," delete your social media profiles and head down the rabbit hole. Cue up "Every Breath You Take," delete your social media profiles and head down the rabbit hole.

All September long, IGN is spotlighting the best TV coming your way in the 2018-2019 season. Today we're diving into Lifetime's You, based on the Caroline Kepnes novel of the same name. The 10-episode first season follows Joe (Penn Badgley), a seemingly chivalrous bookstore manager, and Beck (Elizabeth Lail), an aspiring writer and overworked grad student, as they begin a relationship. Unfortunately for Beck, Joe's crush soon morphs into obsession, and thanks to his social media savvy, it doesn't take long for him to position himself as the perfect partner for Beck, even as he methodically begins to remove every obstacle (and person) that might get in the way of their romance.

Lifetime's You is the definition of binge-worthy; it's a pulpy, witty, scary, beach-read of a thriller that could run the risk of feeling too over-the-top, if so many of its themes didn't feel so chillingly relevant.

It's a deconstruction of classic rom-com tropes, from the adorable meet-cute to the "random" second encounter; a searing indictment of our overly-curated social media profiles, which filter out most of the honesty from our lives; and a cautionary tale about how much we overshare online, taking our privacy for granted either because we don't think we're interesting enough to merit attention, or because we desperately crave it.

But mostly it's just a well-written powder keg that keeps us waiting for the inevitable explosion - things escalate quickly, and it won't take long before you're screaming at the screen, horror movie style, as characters unwittingly walk headfirst into danger.

The show begins from the perspective of the outwardly charming Joe (whose narration carries us through the series) as he first lays eyes on the vivacious Beck, a customer in his bookstore. They're flirty and playful, and Joe is instantly fascinated. But Beck doesn't give Joe her number, and so in order for this nascent romance to get off the ground, he has to find other means of inserting himself into her life... like tracking her down on social media, breaking into her apartment and hacking her laptop, as you can see in our exclusive sneak peek from the series premiere below:

Exit Theatre Mode

"I was really clear from the very beginning that I wasn’t interested in just a straight-up serial killer or sociopath story," executive producer Sera Gamble tells IGN. "I’m fascinated by those stories, and I find them gripping and entertaining to watch and read about. But Joe Goldberg doesn’t have that checklist of qualities. He’s a very emotional, often quite anxious, deep-thinking kind of person. And he is the most twisted version of a guy with a big heart, and a strong code around love. There’s no part of him that really relishes doing violence, or dark and aggressive things for their own sake. He is just willing to cross lines that you or I might be reluctant or not able to cross, really, for love."

The show's disinterest in painting Joe as an unrepentant villain makes for uncomfortable viewing at times, but also grounds You in an emotional honesty, even as the circumstances grow more unhinged. Talking to reporters at the Television Critics Association summer press tour, Badgley admitted that he personally struggled with how to portray Joe, "because there are so many things about him that are inhuman - or at least there are a couple glaring things about him that are so inhuman." But we all contain multitudes, and even killers have families or people that are willing to believe the best of them, and that's also true of Joe.

While viewers may go into the show with an idea of who Joe is, the same is true of Beck - Joe idealizes her from the start, but she's every bit as complicated, frustrating and unpredictable (i.e. human) as the rest of us, which allows You to subvert the audience's expectations along with Joe's.

Elizabeth Lail and Penn Badgley in Lifetime's You

"As you read the book, you start to realize how unreliable a narrator Joe really is. Essentially, he will closely observe Beck, and he has access to a lot of information about her," Gamble notes. "[So] we wanted to start very tightly in Joe’s point of view, and really get to know Beck as he saw her, ascribing the motivations that he ascribes ... And then as time goes on, we wanted to start to shift you, at times, much more closely to Beck’s point of view. And in fact, episode four, you’re in Beck’s head instead of Joe’s for part of the time. And that’s because I wanted to start to highlight when Joe is correct, and when he is way off the mark in terms of why she does what she does."

Gamble adds, "What’s interesting to us in making this particular show is that there is a lot about our presumptions about men and women - especially when they get to know each other in a romantic context - that’s very toxic. And it’s what we all inhaled when we were watching the romantic comedies that we - or at least I - really loved growing up. I feel like my view of what a man should be was so shaped by movies like Say Anything. I was looking for Lloyd Dobler for a really long time. But you really only have to change your camera angle, or certainly your score, slightly on a lot of those movies, and suddenly it’s not so cute that the hot guy is chasing her - she has said no, and he is chasing her through a public airport, or standing outside her window at night."

Ultimately, You is as much of a commentary on relationships as it is a thriller, something that Gamble says helped offer her a new perspective on herself - and romance as a whole - while making it.

"Working on this show has made me aware that I have more deeply internalized our culture’s ideas about romantic love than I really thought I had," she says. "Diving into this story, I realized that I am so inclined to root for love in a love story. Even if it’s flawed, I somehow want to see these people get over their s*** and be together. And I was quite shocked by it; there’s something kind of dark about it. It’s not healthy. I think a thing that I walked away from this first season really aware of is, our ideas and our beliefs around love, many of them are really unhealthy. But they are so attractive, and so addictive, and so arousing ... the pull of them is so strong."

We'll see just how strong when You premieres Sunday, September 9 at 10 p.m. ET/PT on Lifetime.
