title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Lucky Pokemon Are Now Available in Pokemon Go|http://www.ign.com/wireless|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/07/25/pokemon-go-introduces-lucky-pokemon||2018-07-25|||Share. Reduced Stardust to power up, so you can make them stronger faster. Reduced Stardust to power up, so you can make them stronger faster.

UPDATE: Lucky Pokemon are now available in Pokemon Go. Check out the video below to see a successful Lucky Pokemon trade in action:

Exit Theatre Mode

Original story follows:

Niantic has announced a new feature for Pokemon Go, a new type of Pokemon called Lucky Pokemon.

According to a blog post on Pokemon Go’s official site, Pokemon have a chance to become Lucky Pokemon when they’re traded. Lucky Pokemon will require less Stardust to power up than regular Pokemon, so you won’t have to spend as much to get them to their maximum CP.

Pokemon Go: Lucky Pokemon 7 IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 07 Lucky Pokemon in Pokemon Go 01 OF 07 Lucky Pokemon in Pokemon Go Pokemon Go: Lucky Pokemon Download Image Captions ESC

According to Niantic’s post, a Pokemon is more likely to become Lucky the longer it’s spent in your Pokemon storage, so Pokemon from the game’s launch two years ago probably have a better chance than something you’ve caught recently.

“Whether or not being in storage causes Pokémon to become Lucky Pokémon remains a mystery, but be sure to stay posted for more results from the professor’s research,” the post says.

Lucky Pokemon will have a special background when you view them in your collection or Pokedex, and the Pokedex will track how many you have from each species.

Exit Theatre Mode

Lucky Pokemon were added as part of Pokemon Go’s newest update, which launched today on iOS and yesterday on Android. Along with Lucky Pokemon, the new update allows you to sort and nickname friends on your Friend List, and also adds Stardust as a possible reward from Gifts.

For much more on Pokemon Go, see our full list of generation three Pokemon and read about the people keeping Pokemon Go alive and well in 2018. If you've been gone for a while, also be sure to check out everything you've missed in Pokemon Go since launch.

Andrew is IGN’s executive editor of news and currently has a complete Pokedex. You can find him rambling about Persona and cute animals on Twitter.
