title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Marvel's Silver Sable Explained: The Spider-Man PS4 Merc's Comics History|http://www.ign.com/comics|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/07/marvels-silver-sable-explained-the-spider-man-ps4-mercs-comic-history?read||2018-09-07|||Share. A mercenary with a heart of silver. A mercenary with a heart of silver.

Things are looking up for Marvel's Silver Sable these days. Not only is this sometimes ally, sometimes foe of Spider-Man rumored to be one of the focal points of Sony's burgeoning movie universe of Marvel characters, but she's also playing a major role in Insomniac's hotly anticipated Spider-Man game for the Playstation 4 (as revealed all the way back in July by Insomniac Games). Not bad for the leader of one of the most downtrodden countries in the Marvel Universe.

To help prepare you for the Spider-Man PS4 game and a possible Silver Sable movie, here's everything you need to know about this ruthless mercenary.

Every Spider-Man Movie Spin-Off in Development 10+ IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 11 Click through to learn about every Spider-Man movie currently in development. 01 OF 11 Click through to learn about every Spider-Man movie currently in development. Every Spider-Man Movie Spin-Off in Development Download Image Captions ESC

Silver Sable Explained: The Basics

Silver Sable is the codename of Silver Sablinova. She happens to be one of the most feared and sought-after mercenaries in the Marvel Universe. It helps that she has an entire team called the Wild Pack to support her on her missions.

However, Sable isn't in the merc game for personal riches or thrills. She's also the ruler of a tiny European nation called Symkaria. Completing deadly, lucrative mercenary missions is the only way Silver can bring much-needed wealth and resources back to her homeland. That's why she and Spider-Man have such a seesaw relationship. They've frequently fought alongside one another, but Silver Sable will always put the needs of her people above her friendship with Spider-Man.

Exit Theatre Mode

Watch the trailer above which revealed in July that Silver Sable is in Marvel's Spider-Man.

Silver Sable's Powers and Abilities

Silver Sable has no superhuman powers to speak of, which makes her success as a mercenary all the more impressive. She gets by on the strength of her extensive combat and martial arts training, as well as her innate gymnastic abilities. She also has access to a wide array of weaponry, including a flexible body armor suit, various guns and projectiles, and other weapons funded by her corporation, Silver Sable International.

Some fans speculate that Silver has some sort of biological enhancement that slows her body's aging, a la Nick Fury and Black Widow. This is because her father originally formed the Wild Pack in order to hunt rogue Nazis after World War II, meaning that Silver herself is far older than she appears.

Silver Sable: Origin and Background

Silver Sable was created by writer Tom DeFalco and artist Ron Frenz, debuting in 1985's The Amazing Spider-Man #265. DeFalco has since revealed that she was one of three characters inspired by his love of Safari Cards, a series of animal-themed trading cards (the other two being Puma and Black Fox).

In her first appearance, Silver butted heads with Spider-Man after being hired to bring down Black Fox's criminal enterprise. Feeling sympathy for the villain (who was trying to carry out one last score before retiring), Spider-Man let him escape but confiscated his ill-gotten jewels and turned them over to Silver. That basically set the tone for their relationship going forward.

Silver Sable and Wild Pack went on to become recurring characters in the Spider-Man franchise. Subsequent stories shed more light on her background and origin story, revealing her to be the ruler of the tiny, impoverished nation of Symkaria and dedicated to using her mercenary squad to bring money home to her people. Readers also learned that Symkaria borders Doctor Doom's kingdom of Latveria, and that Silver Sable and Doom are close allies.

In addition to appearing regularly in titles like The Amazing Spider-Man and Daredevil, Silver Sable and her team were eventually given their own solo comic called Silver Sable & Wild Pack. That series lasted from 1992 to 1995. Later, Marvel paired her with fellow mercenary Dominic Fortune for a 2006 limited series called Sable & Fortune.

Silver's story seemingly came to an end in the 2012 Amazing Spider-Man storyline "Ends of the Earth." There she joined forces with Spider-Man and Black Widow to prevent Doctor Octopus and the Sinister Six from accelerating the destructive effects of global warming. She and Rhino both apparently drowned in the Sinister Six's ruined underwater base. However, it turned out that both characters survived and eventually resurfaced.

Spider-Man most recently joined forces with Silver Sable in a 2017 storyline called "The Osborn Identity." She revealed that she had been pretending to be dead in order to maintain cover while eliminating Symkaria's enemies but finally resurfaced after Norman Osborn plotted a coup of her undefended country. These days, she's back in the spotlight and ready to protect her people against any and all threats.

Silver Sable: Beyond the Comics

Silver Sable has appeared in several Spider-Man animated shows, beginning with the 1994 series (voiced by Mira Furlan) and returning in 2002's Spider-Man: The New Animated Series (voiced by Virginia Madsen), 2008's The Spectacular Spider-Man (voiced by Nikki Cox) and 2017's Spider-Man (voiced by April Stewart). Of these shows, The Spectacular Spider-Man made the most significant changes to her back story, re-imagining her as the daughter of New York crime boss Silvermane.

Silver Sable has also appeared in numerous Marvel and Spider-Man-themed video games, including Ultimate Spider-Man, Spider-Man: Battle for New York, Spider-Man: Shattered Dimensions and Punisher: No Mercy. Her most significant video game role to date comes in Insomniac's Spider-Man game. Silver Sable and her mercenary team are a recurring threat in the game, hired by the newly elected Mayor Norman Osborn to protect Manhattan and eliminate Spider-Man by any means necessary.

While Silver Sable has yet to appear in a Marvel movie, that may change as the new Sony universe of Marvel characters begins to take shape. Sony had been developing a film called Silver and Black, which was to be directed by Gina Prince-Bythewood and pair Silver with fellow Spider-Man mainstay Black Cat. However, Sony has now shifted plans, with Silver and Black being reworked into a solo Black Cat movie and a separate Silver Sable film being produced by Prince-Bythewood.

Jesse is a mild-mannered writer for IGN. Allow him to lend a machete to your intellectual thicket by following @jschedeen on Twitter, or Kicksplode on MyIGN.
