title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Night of the Living Dead: How a Simple Mistake Helped the Film Become a Classic|http://www.ign.com/movies|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/07/night-of-the-living-dead-how-a-simple-mistake-helped-the-film-become-a-classic||2018-09-07|||Share. In this excerpt from the new book Journey of the Living Dead, learn how a copyright blunder 50 years ago helped the film in its journey to cult and pop culture enshrinement. In this excerpt from the new book Journey of the Living Dead, learn how a copyright blunder 50 years ago helped the film in its journey to cult and pop culture enshrinement.

George Romero's horror classic Night of the Living Dead is where the modern concept of the zombie as we understand it today really started. The film didn't just essentially launch the zombie sub-genre, but it remains to this day eminently re-watchable -- truly one of the giants of horror cinema.

And indeed, as the film hits its 50th anniversary this year, it continues to inspire new fans, new works, and new critical evaluation. The new book Journey of the Living Dead: A Tribute to Fifty Years of Flesh Eaters, by Dr. Arnold T. Blumberg, celebrates 100 years of cinematic zombies with an analysis of how Night of the Living Dead permanently impacted the media landscape. Blumberg, who is an occasional contributor to IGN, has provided us with an exclusive excerpt from the book which delves into the curious case of NOTLD's copyright, or lack thereof, and how it helped to contribute to the film's massive success. Read on for the full excerpt...

PUBLIC DOMAIN-IA

Every Night fan knows the basic story. Prior to 1978, US copyright law required that, in order to claim copyright in any instance of a protectable work, the owners had to apply a copyright notice to it. Romero and company were well aware of this, having had a visible notice on the title screen when the film was still called Night of the Flesh Eaters, but then their distributor, the Walter Reade Organization, demanded a last-minute title change due to the existence of the 1964 film, The Flesh Eaters. The title became Night of the Living Dead, and the Image Ten team—the group Romero and Russo had assembled to provide financing for production, a budget that eventually totaled $114,000—inadvertently lost all control of their movie when they failed to carry over the copyright notice on the title screen of their film prints after making the change. The moment the movie was released, it was instantly in the public domain, leading to decades of midnight showings, late-night TV airings, multiple VHS and DVD releases, and availability on YouTube and the Internet Archive, and all with no need to pay a dime to the creators that crafted the horror classic.

The public domain status of Night was, of course, a huge factor in the film’s journey to cult and pop culture enshrinement. In the years that followed Night’s release, and as the film’s reputation grew and grew, there were a number of efforts by members of Image Ten to reassert some sort of control over their work. Russo chose to recut the film with new footage for its 30th anniversary and thus assert copyright as a derivative work, while Romero tried to copyright the title by spearheading the 1990 remake. We’ll talk more about those projects when we reach them chronologically, but it’s amusing to note that Romero thought Russo’s plan was “ridiculous.” Meanwhile, while numerous video and DVD companies happily released editions of the film over the years without contacting anyone involved, presenting deteriorated prints or horribly colorized versions for unsuspecting fans to purchase, several of those companies evidently still negotiated with the Image Ten partners for the rights to release the movie regardless of its legal status, so that they could proceed with approval from the film makers anyway.

Conflicting details have turned up in some retellings of the tale, however. During the writing of Zombiemania, Romero told us that the film is indeed in the public domain, and the 1990 remake was intended to protect the title, but we then found dozens of interviews conducted over the years in which Romero and Russ Streiner, among others, referred to either an eight- or 20-year battle to regain or affirm copyright ownership of the film, which they sometimes claimed to have eventually won. In one source, both Hinzman and Romero insisted that people were mistaken—the film was not in the public domain. Given the certainty of the film’s legal standing, this could only have been an attempt to con at least a few people into believing otherwise. At the time we completed that book, the US Copyright Office confirmed that the film was in the public domain, and that they had no official record covering copyright ownership of the original film.

Now, however, the battle may finally be over, thanks to the Museum of Modern Art, Janus Films, the Criterion Collection, and Martin Scorsese. In honor of the film’s 50th anniversary, a stunning 4K restoration was completed with Scorsese’s involvement, exhibited in limited theatrical release, and offered on Blu-ray. This version of the film is now protected by copyright...or so they say. Although a visible copyright notice now appears at the end of this version of the film (see image), there are legal experts that insist a restoration cannot be protected, while others say that this can indeed be enforced. Perhaps, in the end, just the suggestion of ownership will be enough to accomplish what Romero and some of his colleagues tried to do in a few of those old interviews. Although original unrestored prints remain in the public domain, there may now be some means by which the remaining Image Ten members can once again profit from their creation; sadly, Romero himself didn’t live long enough to see the end of this struggle.

EXCERPT FROM JOURNEY OF THE LIVING DEAD, 2018 ATB PUBLISHING, BY DR. ARNOLD T. BLUMBERG, www.atbpublishing.com/zombie

To learn more about Journey of the Living Dead, head over to ATB Publishing now!
