title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Nintendo Appears to Leak the Name of the Yoshi Switch Game|http://www.ign.com/nintendo|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/06/nintendo-appears-to-leak-the-name-of-the-yoshi-switch-game||2018-09-06|||Share. The delayed Nintendo Direct appears to be the culprit for the leak. The delayed Nintendo Direct appears to be the culprit for the leak.

Nintendo seems to have accidentally leaked the title of Yoshi's previously unnamed 2019 Switch game: Yoshi's Crafted World.

Twitter user @TheOgEVG was perusing Nintendo's official website and looking at the Super Smash Bros. page when he spotted the apparent slip. At the bottom of the page, a suggested games tool pulled up a 2019 Nintendo Switch game with the name Yoshi's Crafted World clearly displayed. Although IGN has been unable to replicate that suggested result – Nintendo has likely taken it down by now – other site visitors have also reported seeing it.

Meanwhile, Resetera user Coolduderedux was also able to grab a screenshot of a Google search engine results page displaying the name Yoshi's Crafted World for an official Nintendo webpage.

Nintendo was scheduled to host a Nintendo Direct today, but the broadcast had to be delayed because of an earthquake. It's the second natural disaster to wreak havoc on Nintendo in as many days, with a typhoon also having knocked the letter "N" off Nintendo's headquarters.

Yoshi E3 2017 Reveal Trailer Stills 10+ IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 10 Stills from the E3 2017 reveal trailer for the new Yoshi game. 01 OF 10 Stills from the E3 2017 reveal trailer for the new Yoshi game. Yoshi E3 2017 Reveal Trailer Stills Download Image Captions ESC

Because of the Direct being delayed, speculation is high that Nintendo planned to reveal the name Yoshi's Crafted World during the broadcast and forgot to cancel the title going live today in its website's suggested games tool. Fans aren't the only ones making that connection either, with reporter Laura Kate Dale, who's well-known for leaking Nintendo info in the past, tweeting that leaks are likely.

Nick Santangelo is a freelance writer based in Philadelphia. He loves video games and sports, but not sports video games. Follow him on Twitter.
