title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Oscars Won't Present Best Popular Film Category Next Year After All|http://www.ign.com/movies|https://www.ign.com/videos/2018/09/06/no-best-popular-film-award-at-the-oscars-next-year||2018-09-06|||No Best Popular Film Award at the Oscars Next Year

No Best Popular Film Award at the Oscars Next Year

Share. Other previously announced changes will remain. Other previously announced changes will remain.

In a press release from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, the previously announced Outstanding Achievement in Popular Film category won’t be coming to the 91st Oscars ceremony after all.

The Academy said that adding the new Oscars category merits further study, stating "The Academy recognized that implementing any new award nine months into the year creates challenges for films that have already been released. The Board of Governors continues to be actively engaged in discussions, and will examine and seek additional input regarding this category."

Exit Theatre Mode

Other previously announced changes coming to the 91st Academy Awards in 2019 will remain, including shortening the telecast length to three hours by presenting six to eight categories during commercial breaks.

“There has been a wide range of reactions to the introduction of a new award, and we recognize the need for further discussion with our members,” said Academy CEO Dawn Hudson. “We have made changes to the Oscars over the years—including this year—and we will continue to evolve while also respecting the incredible legacy of the last 90 years.”

Oscars 2018 Best Picture Nominees Review Roundup 10+ IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 10 Check out what IGN's reviewers scored the nine films nominated for Best Picture at the 90th Academy Awards (in alphabetical order) ... 01 OF 10 Check out what IGN's reviewers scored the nine films nominated for Best Picture at the 90th Academy Awards (in alphabetical order) ... Oscars 2018 Best Picture Nominees Review Roundup Download Image Captions ESC

When news of a “Best Popular Film” category originally broke, many fans and critics disapproved of the populist category. Soon after announcing the changes, we referred to the change as a “terrible mistake.” In other Oscar news, check out Marvel's strategy to get Black Panther a Best Picture nomination.

The 91st Oscars will be broadcast on February 24, 2019, at the Dolby Theatre in Hollywood.

Colin Stevens is a freelance writer for IGN. Follow him on Twitter.
