title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Red Dead Redemption 2: Rockstar Reveals New Character Information|http://www.ign.com/xbox-one|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/06/red-dead-redemption-rockstar-revealing-gang-members-names||2018-09-06|||Share. Saddle up with these new additions to the gang. Saddle up with these new additions to the gang.

Update 09/07/18: Rockstar has now released short biographies for every character shown off yesterday - for readability, you'll find them at the end of the story.

Rockstar Games spent yesterday rounding up its posse. Put another way, the developer is tweeting out names and quotes for some of the characters coming in Red Dead Redemption 2, most of whom seem to be at least associated with the Dutch Van der Linde gang.

Many of these characters were known to us either from the last game, or our previews of the next - but a few of these characters are being seen or named for the first time. Check out the whole line-up below:

Red Dead Redemption 2 Character Cards 10+ IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 23 01 OF 23 Red Dead Redemption 2 Character Cards Download Image Captions ESC

Among the new reveals were Susan Grimshaw, Tilly Jackson and Molly O'Shea. We also see the Marston family to be, from the young John, a really young Jack, and the yet-unmarried Abigail.

The art cards were revealed every half-hour for 11 hours, ending, as you might expect, with new protagonist Arthur Morgan, whose accompanying quote reads: "We're thieves, in a world that don't want us no more."

Exit Theatre Mode

Some expected the line-up to finish with the promised second gameplay video but, hours later, there's still no sign of that.

Red Dead Redemption 2 is released on PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on October 26.

Exit Theatre Mode

Here's a short bio for every character included in the art cards:

Dutch van der Linde: The leader of a sizeable gang of outlaws and misfits. Idealistic, anarchic, charismatic, well-read, well-lived, but possibly starting to unravel under the pressures of the encroaching modern world.

Hosea Matthews: A master con artist, gentleman and thief, Hosea has been Dutch's closest friend and right-hand man for over twenty years. Intelligent and quick-witted, he can talk his way into, or out of, just about anything.

Molly O’Shea: A Dublin girl and the object of Dutch’s affection, for now at least, Molly is too high-strung for a life on the run and it’s all starting to take a toll on her.

Susan Grimshaw: The undisputed boss and arbiter of justice in the camp, everything would have fallen apart years ago without Susan in charge. Tenacious and iron-willed, she stands for no nonsense.

Pearson: The camp’s butcher and cook, Pearson served a short stint in the navy that he likes to talk about at length. A loud, jolly degenerate who is somewhat in denial about the turn his life has taken.

Micah Bell: A career criminal and hitman. Wild and unpredictable but he lives for the action.

Charles Smith: A relatively recent recruit to the gang, Charles is quiet and reserved but extremely competent in everything he does and virtually unbeatable in a fight. A decent, honest man who also happens to be deadly.

Bill Williamson: An ex-soldier discharged from the army, possibly dishonorably. Hot headed, he tends to act first and think later but is tough, dedicated and always ready to fight.

Leopold Strauss: Originally hailing from Austria, Herr Strauss is responsible for keeping the gang’s books and running their money lending operation. A serious, somewhat shifty and unemotional man, he has all the qualities a loan shark needs.

John Marston: Once an orphaned street kid taken under Dutch's wing at the age of twelve, John has always had to live by his wits. Shrewd, fearless and strong-willed, he and Arthur are Dutch’s proudest protégés.

Abigail Roberts: An orphan who grew up scraping out a living in dive bars and brothels in the West, Abigail is a strong, straight-talking woman who has seen a lot of life and knows what it takes to survive against the odds.

Jack Marston: Young Jack has grown up with the gang, although everyone has done their best to shield him from the more nefarious elements, especially his mother Abigail. He loves everything about nature and the outdoor life, and is carefully watched over by his many aunts and uncles.

Karen Jones: A consummate scam artist and trigger woman who can drink pretty much anybody under the table. Bold and full of fun, she loves the outlaw life and wouldn’t have it any other way.

Javier Escuella: A notorious bounty hunter and Mexican revolutionary. Javier immediately had a strong connection to Dutch’s ideals. Very committed, passionate and loyal.

Tilly Jackson: An outlaw from the age of 12, Tilly ran with another gang before joining up with Dutch. Savvy, resilient and dependable, she can more than handle herself and isn’t afraid to speak her mind.

Uncle: A hanger-on and good-time guy, Uncle is always around when the whiskey is open and never around when there’s any work to be done. If he wasn’t so entertaining, Dutch would have cut him loose years ago.

Mary-Beth Gaskill: A kind, good-natured young woman, which makes her the perfect criminal. By the time people realize they’ve been duped, Mary-Beth is already on her way home with the money.

Lenny Summers: Young Lenny has been on the run since he was 15 years old after killing the men who murdered his father. Smart, educated, competent and ambitious, he is always ready to do his part.

Josiah Trelawny: A flamboyant conjurer, conman and trickster, Trelawny is a very hard man to pin down but he’s always able to bring good leads.

Reverend Swanson: An ex clergyman now lost to debauchery, Swanson has fallen a long way from the standards he once set himself. If he hadn’t saved Dutch’s life in the past, it’s unlikely the gang would have kept him around for this long.

Sean Macguire: A cocky young Irish thief and stick-up man who comes from a long line of criminals and political dissidents. He always wants a piece of the action and believes in himself…perhaps a little too much.

Sadie Adler: A widow who is hellbent on taking revenge upon those who killed her husband. Relentless and afraid of nothing and no one. The wrong woman to cross, but very loyal to those she loves.

Arthur Morgan: Dutch's most dependable and capable enforcer since he was a boy, the outlaw life is all Arthur has ever known. Sharp, cool-headed, and ruthless, but with his own sense of honor. A man who gets the job done.

Nick Santangelo is a freelance writer based in Philadelphia. He loves video games and sports, but not sports video games. Follow him on Twitter.
