title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Samson G-Track Pro USB Microphone Review|http://www.ign.com/tech|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/04/25/samson-g-track-pro-usb-microphone-review||2018-04-25|||Share. More features than you'd expect. More features than you'd expect.

Be sure to visit IGN Tech for all the latest comprehensive hands-on reviews and best-of roundups. Note that if you click on one of these links to buy the product, IGN may get a share of the sale. For more, read our Terms of Use.

If you're a streamer or a podcaster, and you're giving the short shrift to audio quality, you're doing it wrong. The built-in mic on your laptop, or the one on your headset, are fine for gaming or making video calls, but if you're trying to build an audience, you need to up your game, and a good microphone is is one of the most important places to start.

Samson is a company that's been in the microphone game for quite a long time, and its G-Track Pro mic (See it on Amazon) is a $150 USB microphone designed for anyone looking to upgrade their podcast or streaming audio quality in a big way. It's going up against stalwarts like the Blue Yeti, which is our current pick for the Best Microphone for Streaming and Podcasting, and the Razer Seiren, so it has its work cut out for it. We put it through its paces to see how it stacks up.

Design and Features

The Samson G-Pro USB mic is ruggedly built and comes with a wonderfully thick metal base. The entire mic is very stout, as everything is made of metal except the knobs on the front. Even the threaded washer holding the mic to the base is made of sturdy metal. It definitely feels like it could hold up to some rock-star level damage, or perhaps help you cause some.

For audio recording the G-Track Pro is comparable to the Razer Seiren and Blue Yeti, in that it's a professional grade USB microphone with multiple capture patterns for recording audio in a variety of environments. While the Seiren and Yeti offer four patterns to choose from the G-Track Pro has just three, but they still cover the most popular tasks. The three patterns are: cardioid, omnidirectional and bidirectional. Cardioid is ideal if you're just speaking into the mic, such as streaming or podcasting. Omnidirectional is good if you're having a round table discussion or recording live music, and bidirectional is ideal for capturing a one-on-one conversation. Switching between the three is as easy as moving the three-position switch on the mic to the pattern you want. The one pattern that the Seiren and Yeti have that the G-Track Pro is lacking is a Stereo mode, which is usually used to record live music.

All the controls you need are right there on the mic itself, so you don't need to make any adjustments in software or in the Windows audio settings. There are three switches on the mic that adjust the following: controlling pattern, mono or 2-track recording, and a switch to turn monitoring off and on.

The Mono setting records only what's picked up through the mic, and 2-track records the mic and whatever audio equipment is hooked up to the 6.3mm jack on the back of the mic. This essentially means there's a 2-channel mixer built right in, which is awesome at this price point. Monitoring allows you to listen to the mic input through headphones without any lag, which is something few microphones have. If you're making music, it's incredibly important to be able to monitor the sound of your own voice, and it makes a huge difference in any recording situation, even if you're just speaking. No professional would even think about recording without being able to monitor the sound of their own voice.

Of all the functions, the monitoring feature is my favorite thing. Other mics require you to turn monitoring on either in software, or they're always on or always off. The ability to toggle it on and off built right into the mic itself is rare and very handy.

The switches are all mechanical, but they feel very cheap. There's a lot of play for such small switches. The mono and 2-track switch and the monitor switch don't feel quite as bad as the three-position pattern switch, which I found too easy to skip over the cardioid setting in the middle.

Three knobs are on the face of the mic, and above them sits a mute button. The mute button is a toggle switch, and a quick press turns muting on or off. A green LED turns yellow when the mic is muted, so you have a visual cue. The knobs below it control mic, instrument, and headphone volume. Unlike the switches, the knobs feel excellent, with great resistance and smooth operation. They're pretty straightforward, with perhaps the exception of the "instrument" knob.

The instrument knob controls the level of the input for whatever you want to plug into the mic, which is a cool feature in a mic at this price level. On the back of the mic is a 3.5mm jack for headphones and a 6.3mm jack for whatever you want it to be. You could plug a guitar right into the back of the mic, control the levels on the front of the mic, and cut your demo, or whatever else you like, with one piece of equipment.

That's a fantastic feature for anyone looking to record themselves playing an instrument while singing along. For streamers and podcasters, it's not as useful, although if you have an extra mic laying around with a compatible plug, you could increase your sound quality and toss another mic into the mix without needing to buy a mixer. The extra feature is awesome and has no effect on the price.

In terms of price, the G-Track Pro is slightly more expensive than the Blue Yeti but slightly less than the Razer Seiren. Of the three, the Samson Pro-G is the best value. It has one less capture pattern than the Yeti and Seiren, as I mentioned above, but feels much sturdier than both. The ability to add a second input, and control its levels, eliminates the need for a 2-channel mixing board if you decide to expand your podcasting to include guests or record your own music.

Performance

Audio quality is exactly what you would expect from a studio microphone. It captures 24-bit/96kHz sound, which is the same bitrate as the Razer Seiren and beats the Blue Yeti's 16-bit. That being said, it's extremely difficult for the average human to tell the difference between something recorded at 24-bit versus 16-bit. You'd basically need to be an audio engineer with an acute ear for nuance in sound. Overall, it's excellent and offers higher quality recording than most people will typically need.

The G-Track Pro has a lower sample rate than the Seiren's 192kHz, but higher than the Yeti's 48kHz. Again, this is something you would probably never be able to discern, but the 96kHz sample rate is going to sound better from a purely technical level. You just probably won't be able to tell the difference without some very good headphones. Ultimately, if you're going to be using the mic to capture sound for streaming and podcasting, or even video voiceover, 24-bit/96kHz is more than enough to sound great.

Purchasing Guide

The Samson G-Track Pro has an MSRP of $149.99, and it holds steadily to that price online:
