title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Samsung C32HG70 Curved Gaming Monitor Review|http://www.ign.com/tech|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/05/samsung-c32hg70-curved-gaming-monitor-review||2018-09-05|||Share. 32" of curvaceous HDR gaming. 32" of curvaceous HDR gaming.

Be sure to visit IGN Tech for all the latest comprehensive hands-on reviews and best-of roundups. Note that if you click on one of these links to buy the product, IGN may get a share of the sale. For more, read our Terms of Use.

Samsung’s C32HG70 monitor (See it on Amazon) offers all the bells and whistles you’d expect on a curved HDR gaming monitor, plus it's rocking Samsung’s QLED technology for ultra realistic colors. IGN has already reviewed Samsung’s impressive ultra-ultra-wide CHG90, but it might be a little too wide for some folks at 49-inches diagonally. So when Samsung offered to let us try out the 32” version, I was excited to see if it was a bit easier to manage.

Samsung C32HG70 – Design and Features

Despite being a “gaming” monitor, the C32HG70’s design is pretty understated: apart from the triangular stand and the swirled piece of plastic that lights up on the back of the monitor, this monitor doesn’t carry much of the gamer aesthetic you see on, say, Asus’ offerings. It feels just as appropriate in a home office as it does in a subterranean gaming cave.

The stand swivels in any direction you could want, and the action is butter smooth—though that unfortunately causes the monitor to wobble a lot if you accidentally bump the desk. Furthermore, the design of the stand—which includes a large arm coming out of the back—takes up a lot of space, and certain desks may not be able to accommodate it. You definitely won’t be putting this thing at the edge of your desk, since the arm needs about a foot of clearance from the wall. (It’d probably work great on a corner desk, though.)

I/O is ample on the back, with two HDMI 2.0 ports, one DisplayPort, and two USB 3.0 ports, plus a microphone and headphone jack. These ports reside in a large “nook” along the back of the monitor, but it’s not large enough to plug cables in without them bending pretty harshly, which is a strange design choice. The power cable even has a 90-degree plug, but bends the opposite direction of the cable channel, which is very weird.

The large, curved VA panel is an enveloping 32 inches—it almost felt like I was putting a small TV on my desk rather than a monitor. It comes with HDR support, a 144Hz refresh rate with FreeSync 2, and lots of settings to tweak. It also uses Samsung’s QLED technology, which means it has some of the best-looking colors you’ll find on a panel today, and it pairs nicely with HDR. Speaking of HDR, the C32HG70 has a brightness of 350cd/m2, which isn't as blindingly bright as some monitors, but was more than bright enough for me during the day without being too uncomfortably bright at night when playing HDR games.

Resolution is the biggest downside here, measuring just 2560x1440 on a 32" panel. That’s a nice step up from 1080p, but it’s frankly not that impressive for a monitor this size, as it results in a pixel density of only 91ppi. Furthermore, its unique subpixel layout causes a pretty obvious “screen door effect,” in which the pixel outlines become very visible on areas of solid color. This is more noticeable in desktop usage than in games, and some people may not be as sensitive to it—but I noticed it several times when using the monitor for work.

You can see the outline of the pixels on the C32HG70, even at a normal viewing distance.

Samsung C32HG70 – Testing

Using Lagom’s LCD test patterns, I found black and white levels to be right on the money, with gamma at the desired 2.2 reading. Gradients produced no noticeable banding, and color reproduction was fantastic, as you’d expect from a QLED display. The monitor comes calibrated from the factory with a printed calibration report, too, if you want the nitty-gritty details.

Response time was decent, but not amazing—its claimed at just 1ms is for the easier grey-to-grey transitions, and those seemed to perform well. But black-to-black produced noticeable-but-not-terrible flickering in Lagom’s test, even when the monitor was set to its “Fastest” response time in the settings (or when FreeSync was turned on, which greys out the response time option). This is to be expected with a VA panel, and most gamers will care more about VA’s strengths than this particular weakness, so it isn’t a deal breaker by any means.

Viewing angles, on the other hand, were a bit disappointing—once again, a downside of the VA panel—and while I usually don’t care about viewing angles on a monitor, the 32” display I reviewed is so large that it was rather noticeable. Even if your viewing angle for the top half of the monitor is dead on, the bottom half may show significant black shifting, so it’s very hard to get the whole monitor exactly perpendicular to your field of view. That means watching movies on this monitor can be problematic, since it’s very obvious that the top black letterbox is darker than the bottom letterbox (or vice versa, depending on your monitor’s position). I found this less of a problem in gaming, and the 27" version of this monitor is probably less affected overall, so your mileage may vary.

On the plus side, the C32HG70’s VA panel allows for better contrast ratios than most PC monitors, offering deeper blacks for those nighttime gaming sessions. There’s no “glow” in the corners to speak of either, which I was very happy to see. The monitor does have a local dimming feature, which automatically turns on when displaying HDR content, but it’s not very good. The local dimming “zones” are implemented in a weird horizontal layout, which results in them rarely dimming all the way, except when performing a full fade to black (which is better than nothing).

Samsung C32HG70 – Gaming

Curved TVs were an undeniably silly trend, but I always thought curved monitors—especially ones this massive in size—were really cool. Gaming on the C32HG70 is an incredibly immersive experience, with the game taking up a substantial portion of my field of view compared to a typical flat monitor. The QLED panel offered vivid colors, and the monitor’s solid contrast ratio combined with its “just right” level of brightness produced a captivating HDR experience. Playing Mass Effect: Andromeda’s introductory “Planetfall” mission really showed off what HDR can do, especially in scenes where you see the sun poking through the clouds or fire sprouting up in a dark valley.

Playing Overwatch with FreeSync produced a smooth, tear-free experience at 144Hz. Note that in order for FreeSync to work, you’ll need to enable it in the monitor’s settings. There are two “Engines” to pick from: Standard and Ultimate, which support different frequency ranges.

If you’re using DisplayPort, Standard supports FreeSync between 120Hz and 144Hz, and Ultimate widens that range to 48Hz and 144Hz. HDMI is a tad more limited, supporting 80-100Hz on Standard, and 48Hz-100Hz on Ultimate. (The monitor comes with one of each cable, so as long as your graphics card supports it, there’s no reason not to use DisplayPort.) Samsung notes that Ultimate mode may produce some flicker (a somewhat common issue with FreeSync), and while I didn’t notice any flicker during my gaming sessions, you can bump the monitor down to Standard if you experience problems.

Samsung C32HG70 – Purchasing Guide

The Samsung C32HG70 has an MSRP of $699, and it's the same price on Walmart but around $550 (or lower) on Amazon usually:
