title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Some Switch Games Seemingly Won't Support Cloud Saves|http://www.ign.com/nintendo|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/08/some-switch-games-seemingly-wont-support-cloud-saves||2018-09-08|||Share. Even certain games that support the feature on other consoles might not do so on Switch. Even certain games that support the feature on other consoles might not do so on Switch.

One of the features Nintendo has touted for its paid Switch Online service launching later this month is cloud saves for games. However, it appears that not all Switch games will get support for the feature.

Game Informer first reported that Nintendo's webpages for first-party games Pokemon Let's Go, Pikachu, Pokemon, Let's Go Eevee, and Splatoon 2 contains a message indicating they will not support cloud saves. The pages for third-party titles Dark Souls Remastered, Dead Cells, FIFA 19, and NBA 2K19 also have the message.

Pokemon Let's Go Pikachu and Let's Go Eevee customisation screenshots 4 IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 04 A look at the customization features in Pokemon Let's Go. 01 OF 04 A look at the customization features in Pokemon Let's Go. Pokemon Let's Go Pikachu and Let's Go Eevee customisation screenshots Download Image Captions ESC

The PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions of each of those third-party games all feature backup cloud saves.

"Nintendo Switch Online membership (sold separately) and Nintendo Account required for online play. This game does not support Save Data Cloud backup," reads the message. "Not available in all countries. Internet access required for online features."

Pages for other games, like Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, do not have the note about cloud save data feature being omitted. Meanwhile, games such as The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild and Super Mario Odyssey have the following note: "A Nintendo Switch Online membership (sold separately) is required for Save Data Cloud backup."

Exit Theatre Mode

IGN has reached out to Nintendo for comment about the accuracy of these listings and whether they could change.

As Game Informer speculates, Nintendo very likely planned to fully unveil the final details about Switch Online in a Nintendo Direct that was postponed earlier this week. That delay has seemingly caused several leaks, such as the name of the 2019 Yoshi game for Switch.

Nick Santangelo is a freelance writer based in Philadelphia. He loves video games and sports, but not sports video games. Follow him on Twitter.
