title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
The 25 Best Superhero Movies|http://www.ign.com/movies|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/08/17/the-25-best-superhero-movies?watch||2018-08-17|||Share. With Infinity War in the books, it's time to snap our fingers and break down the best superhero flicks ever. With Infinity War in the books, it's time to snap our fingers and break down the best superhero flicks ever.

It is time once again, in this post-Infinity War world where Christopher Nolan's The Dark Knight recently celebrated its 10th anniversary, to narrow down the 25 best comic book-based superhero films of all time.

But please keep in mind: Just to alleviate some of the bloat, this list features superhero/fantasy-based movies only. Sorry, no Road to Perdition or Ghost World or a handful of other excellent movies that happen to have been notable comics first. We love those flicks, but you kind of have to have superpowers (or a pretty dope costume) to hang in this 25. So let's dig into brainwashed super-soldiers, foul-mouthed invulnerable vigilantes, ragtag crews of galactic scavengers, a couple Spider-Men, several Batmen, and more!

Also, be sure to watch the video above for our breakdown on why we picked our top three titles.

The 25 Best Superhero Movies 10+ IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 26 Dig into brainwashed super-soldiers, foul-mouthed invulnerable vigilantes, ragtag crews of galactic scavengers, a couple Spider-Men, several Batmen, and more with our 25 best superhero movies! 01 OF 26 Dig into brainwashed super-soldiers, foul-mouthed invulnerable vigilantes, ragtag crews of galactic scavengers, a couple Spider-Men, several Batmen, and more with our 25 best superhero movies! The 25 Best Superhero Movies Download Image Captions ESC

25 Dredd

2012's damn fine Dredd adventure, written by Alex Garland (Ex Machina, Annihilation) and directed by Pete Travis, gruesomely brought John Wagner and Carlos Ezquerra's 2000 AD comic strip to life with a tight, violent story set in the dastardly dystopian future metropolis of Mega-City One.

Featuring a mostly-masked Karl Urban as the titular "judge" - a cop with the jurisdiction to summarily arrest, convict, sentence, and execute criminals - Dredd captured the intense and gritty nature of the source material while providing a principled and pulp-y story that allowed Judge Dredd to simply be... Judge Dredd. By the time Urban growls "I am the law" - Dredd's simple catchphrase - you get chills, and totally forget the silly '90s Sylvester Stallone Judge Dredd movie even existed.

24 Kick-Ass

What if normal, everyday joes decided to don costumes and fight crime? That's a question Kick-Ass sets out to answer. It's not necessarily the most realistic portrayal of urban vigilantism imaginable - after all, how many 11-year-old girls do you know who can back flip off of the wall, kick a 300-pound mobster across a room and slice them into giblets with their katana?

Plausible it isn't, but fun is something Kick-Ass offers in spades. It's a bloody, vulgar, and almost slapstick look at superhero life. And yet, it contains just enough character drama and tragedy to keep viewers invested in the struggles of Kick-Ass, Hit-Girl, Big Daddy, and the rest. Kick-Ass is a very faithful adaptation of Mark Millar and John Romita Jr.'s original series, but it wasn't afraid to take its own creative license along the way.

23 Hellboy

Not many filmmakers could be trusted to so slavishly recreate the specific look of a comic series, but fortunately for Hellboy fans, Guillermo del Toro is one such director.

Based on the Dark Horse series by Mike Mignola, Hellboy is very evocative of the unique style of those books. The casting of character actor Ron Perlman as the titular demon-turned-do-gooder is one way by which del Toro achieves such fidelity; he's not concerned with traditional Hollywood notions of beautiful good guys and ugly bad guys, for example. Which isn't to say that Perlman doesn't turn in a rewardingly heroic performance; he does - and a quite funny and endearing one at that. Equally impressive are his supporting cast of freaks and geeks; a motley crew of super-types that remind us that not all heroes were created equal (or by DC and Marvel).

22 Spider-Man: Homecoming

After Tom Holland swung into action in Captain America: Civil War - gracefully bypassing the usual "Uncle Ben dies/Pete feels guilty" origin story that had already been portrayed twice onscreen over the previous decade or so, fans couldn't wait for Homecoming, an MCU-based Spidey film featuring an endearing new take on Peter Parker as an actual believable teenager bopping around in Queens, away from skyscrapers.

And director John Watts' spirited, emotional Homecoming delivered big time, giving us the best and truest Spider-Man story in a long while - one where you really felt how young and vulnerable Spider-Man was when compared to his super-powered Avenging contemporaries. Homecoming not only tethered Spider-Man's usual rogues' gallery of villains to the events back in the first Avengers movie, but it deepened the surrogate father/son bond between Tony Stark and Peter that began in Civil War, and would pay off big time in Infinity War.

Homecoming managed to introduce new characters and honor established ones while also delivering a terrific and triumphant Spidey story.

21 Scott Pilgrim vs. the World

Edgar Wright's infinitely enjoyable/quotable adaptation of the Scott Pilgrim graphic novel series by Bryan Lee O'Malley is a whirlwind of wit and whimsy as Michael Cera's fuzzy, bass-strumming, Toronto-based titular troubadour finds himself pitted, video game-style, against the seven "evil" exes of one Ramona Flowers (Mary Elizabeth Winstead).

Is Romana, the (momentary) girl of Scott's dreams, worth risking his career, or his life, for? Does bread make you fat? Is chicken not vegan? These are only some of the important questions Scott Pilgrim vs. the World answers as an all-star supporting cast featuring Brie Larson, Chris Evans, Anna Kendrick, Jason Schwartzman, and more take Scott to task over his total lady-killer wannabe jerky jerk-ness.

With songs composed by Beck and a sweet and sour romance underneath all the crazy and infectious ruckus (though one could easily argue that Scott winds up with the wrong person, if indeed he should wind up with anyone), Scott Pilgrim vs. the World is a kooky kaleidoscope of awesome.

20 The Crow

Brandon Lee's last film is his best, featuring the late actor in the role of - literally - an avenging angel.

Alex Proyas' The Crow is painted in shadows and slicked with a grittiness that makes you feel like you need a tetanus shot when it's all done. The plot? Lee's Eric Draven mysteriously returns from the grave, paints his face, and takes on the criminals responsible for taking his life and the life of his girlfriend. Drenched in gothic glory, Eric, with a crow as his beyond-the-veil guide, uses supernatural-powered gunplay and rooftop fisticuffs to exact vengeance supreme.

A magnificently macabre look, a killer soundtrack, and a built-in real-life tragedy (Lee was accidentally killed on the set while filming) make The Crow a truly unforgettable experience.

19 Watchmen

Over the years, many tried to film Alan Moore's classic tale, but it was Zack Snyder, then only coming off of his sleeper hit 300, who was finally able to get the job done, seemingly performing a miracle along the way, Doctor Manhattan-style.

The resulting epic left fans divided. Is it too exacting a reproduction of the original graphic novel? Or did Snyder elevate the comic-book adaptation genre to new heights? IGN stands firmly on the side of the latter opinion. We see Watchmen as having the potential of being a Blade Runner type film, the kind of picture which comes to be more and more appreciated on home viewings over the years.

There's a lot going on in the story of Rorschach and the Comedian and the Nite Owl, and unlike many of its peers Watchmen is truly a film that merits multiple viewings, unveiling new and tasty elements each time.

18 Kingsman: The Secret Service

As the second Matthew Vaughn movie on this list, and not the last, Kingsman: The Secret Service showcased another rambunctiously hyper-violent Vaughn/Mark Millar collaboration - this time sinisterly skewering the prim and proper James Bond suave spy genre and transforming it into a bodaciously bouncy bloodbath.

Filled with hearty laughs and breakneck action, the first Kingsman film features Taron Egerton as a rebellious young man taught how to channel his cunning and penchant for violence into spy skills that service Queen and Country. Enter Colin Firth's exquisitely-suited, manners-obsessed "Galahad" - an esteemed member of a private intelligence service tasked with saving the world from magical Bond-ian villains bent on world domination - and you have one magnificent mentorship.

Kingsman: The Secret Service cocoons itself within the world of Bond, but then explodes from that chrysalis in a fun fury that turns espionage tropes on their head and sends the spy genre spiraling into the swashbuckling stratosphere.

17 Batman

Without Tim Burton's ghoulish and gothic take on Batman, which ushered the Caped Crusader to the screen in 1989 for his first stab at stardom sans Adam West, who knows what the superhero movie landscape would even look like today, if it in fact existed at all?

Influenced by gritty, mature spins on the Batman character - from the likes of Frank Miller, Alan Moore, and countless other writers and artists who helped bring Batman back from the comedic and campy brink of the '60s and early '70s - Batman was a box-office bonanza. Admittedly, at times Batman was the least interesting character in his own movie, as Jack Nicholson's Joker was a bonafide show-stealer, but this movie brought superhero cinema roaring into pop culture and proved that it could be shadowy, dark and adult-oriented.

16 Wonder Woman

The DCEU movie franchise finally struck elusive oil with Patty Jenkins' soaring Wonder Woman movie, where Gal Gadot reprised her Batman v Superman role in a fun, earnest adventure about true heroism and sacrifice.

As the first modern superhero film with a female lead, and director, Wonder Woman stands as a landmark success, smashing barriers and collapsing the brooding bro template DC and Warner Bros. had bet the farm on. All of a sudden, Princess Diana and her adventures were the true star of the DC-verse, and not the usual Bruce and/or Clark fare.

Filled with dazzling, heart-swelling set pieces that wowed audiences worldwide, Wonder Woman was a risk that rightly relied on fans' need and desire for an uplifting adventure about the struggle for peace and unity.

15 X2

If Bryan Singer's first X-Men film was like a warm-up session in the Danger Room for Marvel's merry band of mutants, then the 2003 sequel was the real freakin' deal. Escaping the occasional cheapness of the original, X2 - given the subtitle X-Men United for some reason by Fox - knocked it out of the park.

Hugh Jackman's Wolverine doesn't just get to kick more butt while uncovering his Secret Origin, but the character's affinity for the gentler side of life - kids, redheads named Jean - is further explored here, building on the Wolvie/Rogue relationship of the first film. Meanwhile, new characters like the angel-in-devil's-clothing Nightcrawler and the villainous Stryker are interesting and compelling. And returning characters such as Storm, Jean Grey and Cyclops are all much more polished than in the previous film.

14 Spider-Man 2

One of the downsides for many superhero movies is that they get too wrapped up in origin stories. By the time a hero encounters personal tragedy, acquires their powers and suits up to fight evil, it's time for the final battle to unfold and the credits to roll. The sequel is where many of these projects rise above or fall flat. With the origin out of the way, a hero has his true chance to shine.

And shine is just what Peter Parker did in Spider-Man 2. In this sequel, Spidey has established himself as New York's premier defender against all threats criminal and surreal. Despite his success in costume, Peter continues to struggle with paying the bills, keeping his grades up, and finding time for his loved ones. As usual, it's the balance between his superhero and mundane problems that makes Peter's struggle so endearing.

This sequel also outclassed the original with a far better villain. Alfred Molina's Doctor Octopus was both menacing and surprisingly sympathetic. The good doctor began as a role model for the fatherless Peter before degenerating into a madman with the power to destroy the city. Spider-Man 2 put its hero through hell, and he came out stronger for it in the end. Too bad no one warned him about Spidey 3.
