title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
The Purge Series Premiere: "What is America?" Review|http://www.ign.com/tv|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/05/the-purge-what-is-america-review||2018-09-05|Review By||Share. It Happened One Night. It Happened One Night.

Warning: Full spoilers for the episode follow...

The new Purge series, despite coming from a hit horror franchise that's given us dozens of crazy moments over the past few years, may be the definition of, and by design even, a slow-burn.

Fans of the films may not enjoy this particular aspect since bodies start dropping usually within the first fifteen minutes of the movies, but given that this specific showcasing of The Purge takes a window of 12 hours and spreads it out over 10 episodes, it makes sense that things aren't going to be bedlam right out of the gate. If "any given Purge" takes a few hours to get cooking, by Purge universe rules, then we've probably got one or two more episodes before things start getting bloody and the pressure starts rising.

That's not to say that this premiere, "What is America?," was action-free. In fact - and it's understandable why this storyline feels the most vital and vibrant so far - we got a non-Purge kill! Gabriel Chavarria's US Marine, Miguel, kills a dude while on a panicked quest to stop his sister from sacrificing herself as part of a weird new Purge cult that's now formed here at Purge Night's 10-year anniversary.

Exit Theatre Mode

So right away with this story, there are stakes, and Miguel's so caught up in his mission that he doesn't really even care that it's Purge night. Sure, it obviously makes things more difficult for him, but I like that he's still very "Point A to Point B" about it all - and that he can handle himself. Because no one else presented to us so far seems like they can.

Miguel drives the streets, wearing night vision goggles, searching for his sister while peripheral violence unfolds all around him. For his story, the Purge is a backdrop. For his sister, Penelope, the Purge is a curse that's warped her life to the point where she's now gone from strung-out junkie to someone willing to give her life to masked maniacs so that they can cleanse their souls.

A few words are mentioned about how her parents (and thus also Miguel's) were killed during a Purge: "The anniversary of their giving," as Penelope stated in her cryptic letter. So does this mean their parents were wiped out during the Staten Island test run? Is this a First Purge connection? Dates on the Purges kind of get blurry when it comes to figuring out when The Purge: Election Year takes place, but this nod seems to be a direct link back to Staten Island.

The Purge: 11 Scariest Purgers 10+ IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 11 THE SCHOOL GIRLS (The Purge: Election Year)

Ugh, youths. It's a well-known truth that teenagers are the worst, but imagine these rich, spoiled-rotten sociopaths on Purge night. Young Kimmy and Laney were so put out after being told they couldn't shoplift that they returned to the deli during the Purge, with a few friends, to exact ruthless revenge. At least Kimmy had the decency to murder her own parents before heading out in to the night to cause more carnage. 01 OF 11 THE SCHOOL GIRLS (The Purge: Election Year)

Ugh, youths. It's a well-known truth that teenagers are the worst, but imagine these rich, spoiled-rotten sociopaths on Purge night. Young Kimmy and Laney were so put out after being told they couldn't shoplift that they returned to the deli during the Purge, with a few friends, to exact ruthless revenge. At least Kimmy had the decency to murder her own parents before heading out in to the night to cause more carnage. The Purge: 11 Scariest Purgers Download Image Captions ESC

The other stories we got this week, featuring characters ostensibly "safe" from the terrors of Purge Night, are probably going to take a while to pick up. Everything not involving Miguel and Penelope was set-up, which is why their story worked so well. Miguel was actually outside, in the chaos, in an arc filled with action and intrigue. Everyone else was doing things to advance their careers. Sure, they were doing things they didn't like to rise up the corporate ladder, but none of them were in any immediate danger. I'm sure their situations will turn sour eventually, hopefully quickly, but for now they make for an odd juxtaposition for Miguel and Penelope - aka Sister Penny - out in the s***, watching people get chopped up with axes.

Of course, this is also where The Purge series could triumph overall. These are the type of stories the films can't really dive into. The ones that might slow simmer to a boil. Amanda Warren's Jane is stuck in secured board room, on a guarded floor, helping a big financial deal go through for her patronizing boss (William Baldwin), but right at the end we discover she's hired a Purge assassin to kill him. Jenna (Hannah Emily Anderson) and Rick (Colin Woodell) are locked inside a stately manor, for a big NFFA one-percenter Purge party, so that they can possibly get funding for their company, which builds low-income housing. The appearance of Lili Simmons' Lila, the daughter of the man they want to give them money, complicates things because...apparently both Jenna and Rick had a relationship with her as part of a threesome.

9 Questions About How the Purge Actually Works 10+ IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 10 These are some of the biggest questions we have about how the Purge actually works. 01 OF 10 These are some of the biggest questions we have about how the Purge actually works. 9 Questions About How the Purge Actually Works Download Image Captions ESC

So these other stories do contain a slight turn of the screw, but will things pick up enough to make us care about their somewhat sanitized surroundings? Being among the NFFA elite, and wearing serial killer photo masks, is kind of gross, and so is pulling an all-nighter for a s***ty boss, but it's not like they're trapped in the maw of freakin' madness, seeing people get flogged and dragged. Hopefully, a few episodes from now, the mansion will turn into a crazed death zone and Jane's office will somehow devolve into mayhem.

Speaking of Jane here again, the idea of a Purge hitwoman is pretty cool. One with an app and everything, where you can follow her exploits all night and get "proof of kill." It's also intriguing that this woman will try to squeeze in as many jobs as possible in one evening, while it's all legal. I do wonder what crime is like the other 364 days. We know it's lower overall, but do professional killers still operate? Maybe just not as much? Or does everything stop cold once the morning alarm sounds? This woman was very careful not to even accept Jane's money until after the Purge kicked off.

Exit Theatre Mode

Another note: The cult member who was chosen, Arthur, sure didn't like the sight of those axes, but he pushed through it all, obviously terrified. But the other members on the bus, including Penelope, were clearly shocked by what they saw. Given that Arthur was first, and he was extremely scared in his final moments, is everyone else going to be all gung-ho about the rest of the night? Also, how long has this cult been bussing people around? Were those purgers, with the blonde ponytail masks, specifically waiting for that bus because it makes a stop there every year?
