title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
There Was a Witcher Movie and Series in 2001|http://www.ign.com|http://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/04/there-was-a-witcher-movie-in-2001#article_comments||2018-09-04|||Share. Wiedźmin. Wiedźmin.

Sorry, Netflix. Before the games, but after the books written by Polish author Andrzej Sapkowski, The Witcher was adapted into a movie, and a TV series. Netflix is now developing the franchise into a new TV show starring Henry Cavill as monster-hunting hero Geralt.

The original film was known as Wiedźmin in Poland, which translates into The Witcher in English, although the film was renamed The Hexer internationally.

Exit Theatre Mode

As the story goes, the film was released in 2001 and was panned by critics. The biggest problem being the movie wasn’t actually a movie, it was a 13 episode TV series that had been squished into a two-hour feature film, which in turn made it into a nonsensical mishmash.

Not one to be defeated, director Marek Brodzki (who was assistant director on Schindler’s List) released The Hexer TV series one year later, in 2002. The general consensus was while the TV show was vastly more coherent than the film version, the movie’s reputation left a sour taste in the mouth of the viewer, so after a 13 episode run – the last episode of which was titled ‘Ciri’ – the show came to a close.

Exit Theatre Mode

Both the film and TV mini-series were written by Michał Szczerbic, and produced by Lew Rywin. The main man himself, Geralt of Rivia, was played by Michal Zebrowski.

In an interview in 2003, in St. Petersburg, Russia, Sapkowski was asked for his thoughts on The Hexer Movie and TV series. Never one to mince his words, Sapkowski replied with a brief, albeit telling repartee: “To answer this question, I have only one word, and that word is indecent, though brief…”

For all the latest Witcher news, and news from over ten years ago, keep it locked to IGN. If you're new to the franchise, let IGN bring you up to speed with Who Is Geralt of Rivia and check out all the latest news on the Netflix adaptation.

Fall TV 2018: 32 Shows We're Excited About 10+ IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 32 THE PURGE (Sept 4, USA)

The mighty and maniacal Purge franchise heads to TV for a 10-episode dive into the 10th anniversary of alternate America's Purge Night - as a career woman, a marine, a cult member, and a young couple all find themselves pushed to the brink of madness. Starring Gabriel Chavarria, Lili Simmons, Lee Tergesen, Amanda Warren, and more. 01 OF 32 THE PURGE (Sept 4, USA)

The mighty and maniacal Purge franchise heads to TV for a 10-episode dive into the 10th anniversary of alternate America's Purge Night - as a career woman, a marine, a cult member, and a young couple all find themselves pushed to the brink of madness. Starring Gabriel Chavarria, Lili Simmons, Lee Tergesen, Amanda Warren, and more. Fall TV 2018: 32 Shows We're Excited About Download Image Captions ESC

Wesley Copeland is a freelance news writer, but you probably already guessed that. For more obvious statements, you should probably follow him on Twitter.
