title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Uncharted Exclusive Clip: Nathan Fillion Plays Nathan Drake in New Fan Film|http://www.ign.com/movies|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/07/16/uncharted-exclusive-clip-nathan-fillion-plays-nathan-drake-in-new-fan-film||2018-07-16|||Share. Allan Ungar directed the online short. Allan Ungar directed the online short.

Many fans have long expressed how much they want to see Firefly star Nathan Fillion play Uncharted hero Nathan Drake on screen ... and now they finally can!

Fillion and director Allan Ungar (Gridlocked, the upcoming Decoy) have made an Uncharted short film, which you can enjoy an exclusive sneak peek at the fan film now by watching the clip below!

The fifteen-minute fan film -- which also stars Avatar's Stephen Lang as Victor "Sully" Sullivan, Mircea Monroe (Episodes) as Elena Fisher, and Geno Segers (Banshee) as the villain -- follows Drake on a quest to find the lost treasure of the Flor de la Mar.

Exit Theatre Mode

You can watch the full movie here on YouTube.

It should be noted that Fillion and Ungar's short is a fan film produced independently of the official feature film version currently in development at Sony Pictures, which reportedly has Spider-Man star Tom Holland attached to portray a young Nathan Drake.

Fillion -- who we are told underwent an extensive training regimen to play Drake and did many of his own stunts -- was matter of fact about why he and Ungar made their short.

“Here’s this incredible property, it’s out there, and no one has done anything with it yet. Brilliant characters, gripping stories, tailor made for me -- add in Allan’s passion for Uncharted, and talent -- why wouldn’t we?," Fillion said in a statement.

Ungar added: "I've been a huge fan of this franchise since it started back in 2007. I was still in school and remember thinking that it was going to change both the gaming landscape and the way we experience immersive storytelling. While the set pieces were always incredibly fun and inventive, it was the importance of character and story that really hooked me. You were able to put yourself in the shoes of someone that embodied everything we love about heroes, including their flaws. Over the years I always felt that if it was ever adapted into a film or series, there was only one guy out there that could play the part. Turns out I wasn't the only one."

Nathan Fillion as Uncharted's Nathan Drake.

Nathan Fillion and Allan Ungar will appear on IGN's San Diego Comic-Con live stream this Thursday, July 19, to discuss their fan film at length. Be sure to tune in for it!

San Diego Comic-Con runs from July 19-22, and IGN will be on location to provide you with live coverage from the event. Check out our guide on how to watch Comic-Con 2018 live on IGN, and be sure to bookmark IGN's SDDC hub page, where you'll be able to keep up with all the big trailer reveals, panel reactions, and more.
