title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Update: Eminem's Latest Album Samples Tokyo Ghoul, Not Kingdom Hearts|http://www.ign.com|http://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/05/no-one-can-work-out-if-eminems-new-album-samples-kingdom-hearts-or-not||2018-09-05|||Share. Illadaproducer has now provided the actual Kingdom Hearts beat. Illadaproducer has now provided the actual Kingdom Hearts beat.

Update 05/09/2018: After requests from fans of Kingdom Hearts, Illadaproducer has now supplied the beat mentioned in the Rolling Stone interview that does sample Utada Hikaru's Simple and Clean. You can check out "Kingdom" below.

https://t.co/DtGN015Ekm here’s a gift to all my Kingdom hearts fans out there. You guys keep requesting to hear the beat where I sampled the theme, so here it is. Enjoy — illaDaProducer (@illaDaProducer) September 5, 2018

Update 04/09/2018: Illadaproducer, Donna Burke and her manager Michael Bain have all reached out to IGN regarding this article. Illadaproducer has confirmed to us via tweet that he "got it confused with another beat" during his Rolling Stone interview and that the real sample does come from the Tokyo Ghoul song Glassy Sky.

It’s actually Glassy Sky from Tokyo Ghoul. I got it confused with another beat I did in which I used Kingdom Hearts theme. You guys got the exclusive hahaha — illaDaProducer (@illaDaProducer) September 4, 2018

Further, we have learned that the singer behind what we thought was the sample, "Wanderers" is Luschka, not Lisa Gomamoto as previously reported.

There's a familiar sample on Eminem's new album, and it's left a lot of people confused about where it came from.

This tricky tale was first kicked off by producer IllaDaProducer in an interview with Rolling Stone about his work on Eminem's new album, Kamikaze.

When asked about the chopped-up sample on track 12, 'Good Guy' (listen to a clip below), IllaDaProducer said: "That's me doing my video game thing. Kingdom Hearts. It's a Japanese video game, and that's the theme song from it. It's one of the dopest melodies I've ever heard. Shout out Japanese video games and Japanimation for inspiration."

The producer doesn't state which Kingdom Hearts track he used, but Genius (as reported by Kotaku) originally listed Utada Hiraku's 'Simple & Clean', which appeared in the original Kingdom Hearts, as the sample.

Thing is, there's debate over whether that's the case. For a start, the track's credits on Spotify list "Jessie Reyez, L. Gomamoto, M. Mathers, Norio Joseph Aono, R. Fraser, Y. Yamada" - none of whom were involved in 'Simple & Clean'.

Fans of Tokyo Ghoul then started speculating that the sample comes from 'Glassy Sky', a song used in the anime. You can hear the similarity, and Genius currently lists that song as the source.

Exit Theatre Mode

But even that doesn't quite add up, as Donna Burke sang 'Glassy Sky', and the credits to 'Good Guy' point to singer Lisa Gomamoto.

But Lisa Gomamoto did sing on a Tokyo Ghoul track, 'Wanderers', which, as YouTube comments point out, sounds extremely similar to 'Glassy Sky'. 'Wanderers' appears to use elements of 'Glassy Sky' as a leitmotif, so the confusion is understandable.

We think we've figured it out, but it still leaves the question as to why the song's own producer said the sample came from elsewhere. Did he speak out of turn or forget what he sampled in the Rolling Stone interview? Which track from the Tokyo Ghoul soundtrack is being sampled here? Is everyone wrong, and the sample's from somewhere else entirely? Will the real Slim Shady please stand up?

Exit Theatre Mode

For a far less mysterious story about a new Eminem song, read about 'Venom', which, as you may have guessed, is part of the soundtrack to Venom.

For more on Kingdom Hearts, check out a discussion on the upcoming Kingdom Hearts 3 from a die-hard fan and a newcomer, straight out of PAX West.

Jordan Oloman is a Freelance Writer for IGN who is glad to set the record straight on this clearly highly contentious issue. Follow him on Twitter.
