title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Venom: Comic-Con Footage Showcased the Symbiote's Brutality and Dark Wit|http://www.ign.com/movies|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/07/24/new-footage-of-venom-in-action-screened-at-comic-con-2018||2018-07-24|||Share. Tom Hardy, Riz Ahmed, and director Ruben Fleischer presented a new look at the Marvel movie. Tom Hardy, Riz Ahmed, and director Ruben Fleischer presented a new look at the Marvel movie.

UPDATE, July 24: Sony has released highlights from their Venom panel at Friday's Comic-Con. Watch what Tom Hardy, Riz Ahmed, and director Ruben Fleischer had to say about working on the Marvel movie by playing the video embedded below.

The original report from follows after the video.

Exit Theatre Mode

Sony Pictures showed a few more scenes of the symbiote itself in action during their Venom presentation at San Diego Comic-Con on Friday. The footage didn't feature finished visual effects but it did show off the creature's size, ferocity, and his interactions with Eddie Brock as well as his dark wit.

The footage began with Eddie meditating while listening to self-help audio, which instructed him that while he couldn't change what happened in the past, he can be in total control in the present. We then see the effects of the symbiote taking him over, some of which we've already seen in the trailers where he complains of feeling sick.

We saw more footage of symbiote tentacles shooting out of Eddie's body in his apartment as its voice speaks inside Eddie's head. But our first real good Venom shot was an outdoor scene of the Venom symbiote's head protruding from Eddie's body in order to speak to him.

Exit Theatre Mode

There were shots of Venom swinging through the city but arguably the biggest new Venom shot was of him battling a large, metallic-looking and more powerful symbiote, which director Rueben Fleischer confirmed later on was Riot not Carnage.

The scariest, most darkly funny Venom footage showed Venom confronting a bad guy in a convenience store run by Mrs. Chan, a friend of Eddie's. Venom tells the thief he is going to rip his limbs off and let what's left of him blow down the street like a turd in the wind.

A Visual History of Venom 10+ IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 34 Before there was Venom, Peter Parker wore the alien costume for several years. The black costume was a major overhaul of Spidey's classic look and set the tone for all Venom costumes to come. 01 OF 34 Before there was Venom, Peter Parker wore the alien costume for several years. The black costume was a major overhaul of Spidey's classic look and set the tone for all Venom costumes to come. A Visual History of Venom Download Image Captions ESC

The scared thief asks "What are you?" to which the symbiote peels away enough to reveal half of Eddie's face. Eddie and the symbiote, having now apparently come to terms with living with each other, tells the doomed thief, "We are Venom." The symbiote's jaws then expand as Venom lunges into the camera to bite into the thief.

Overall, while the new footage of Venom himself in action may have been brief it nevertheless showcased the brutally vicious and darkly sardonic nature of the lethal protector.

San Diego Comic-Con runs from July 19-22, and IGN will be on location to provide you with live coverage from the event. Check out our guide on how to watch Comic-Con 2018 live on IGN, and be sure to bookmark IGN's SDDC hub page, where you'll be able to keep up with all the big trailer reveals, panel reactions, and more.
