title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
We Saw The Ultimate Predator Decapitate a Predator at Comic-Con 2018|http://www.ign.com/movies|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/07/19/we-saw-the-ultimate-predator-decapitate-a-predator-at-comic-con-2018||2018-07-19|||Share. Shane Black's movie leans into R-rated gore and humor. Shane Black's movie leans into R-rated gore and humor.

20th Century Fox kicked off San Diego Comic-Con 2018 on Thursday with an exclusive sneak peek at The Predator, showcasing new footage from the upcoming sequel-reboot that showcased the movie's R-rated gore and humor.

Some SPOILERS follow for The Predator, although if you've seen the poster then this really shouldn't come as a surprise to you.

In The Predator, suburbia becomes the latest battleground in the war between humans and the titular alien hunters. But this time around, the Predators have been upgraded -- via DNA from other species -- into even stronger, smarter, and more lethal hunters. “The Ultimate Predator” made his debut in the most recent trailer and it showed its might by quickly thrashing another, but smaller Predator.

Exit Theatre Mode

The panel -- featuring writer-director Shane Black and cast members Olivia Munn, Sterling K. Brown, Trevante Rhodes, Keegan-Michael Key, Thomas Jane, Augusto Aguilera, and Jake Busey -- showed an extended version of that trailer scene. As the (regular) Predator attacks Boyd Holbrook's character at a school, the Ultimate Predator rips the Predator through a window and proceeds to thrash him mercilessly as the humans look on stunned while escaping to a RV.

The Ultimate Predator slams the Predator into a parked car, immobilizing him. As the Predator lies there hurting, the Ultimate Predator rips off his victim's helmet and proceeds to literally punch his face in until shiny, green blood oozes out. The Ultimate Predator then rips his prey's head off, holding it aloft as the humans flee in the RV. Munn and Holbrook's characters watch all this through the RV window as they speed away and she wonders aloud about how the Predators are hunting each other now.

Director Shane Black explained that there must be a faction on the Predators' home planet who are peeved they've been bested twice now by humans. These Predators, Black mused, wouldn’t be above “roiding” and drawing on all the DNA of various species they’ve encountered to enhance themselves. This augmentation would not only affect their size and overall look but also their fighting style and movements, which still remains rooted in, as Black put it, "that feeling of deadly purpose and absolute f*****g blood-curdling efficiency." To Black, the Predators are "completely savage, brutal creatures.”

Exit Theatre Mode

But the footage shown at Comic-Con also highlighted Black's trademark dark and edgy humor. In another scene -- set earlier than the decapitation scene -- Holbrook and his band of psychologically damaged ex-soldiers (Rhodes, Key, Jane, and Aguilera) are trying to make Munn's evolutionary biologist character feel safe and comfortable when she wakes up in their motel room. They leave her a tea cup and some small tokens and gifts to wake up to. It doesn't work. Munn wakes up, freaked out to find herself surrounded by this rough group of crazy (but kind of also dopey and sweet) men. She jumps up and grabs a nearby shotgun.

Munn levels the shotgun at Boyd. Key laughs and asks for his teammates to pay up because he knew she would go for the gun. Holbrook tries to dissuade her from using it but she pulls the trigger. It’s not loaded. Key laughs again saying he knew she’d pull the trigger. They were going to kill her back at the base because she was working with mercs and scientists but they chose not to.

Boyd shows her a vial of liquid - a Predator sample - and she explains that the alien is called a Predator and it hunts people for sport. There's then a humorous debate about how that name doesn't really work because it is really more of a hunter then and not a predator. The scene also aims for R-rated humor in the exchanges between Munn's character and Jane's lewd and deranged vet. Despite all this, she ultimately agrees to join their team.

Black explained that this team of ex-soldiers is the "modern equivalent of the group from the first movie." These damaged souls were once good at something but have forgotten that.

The Predator stalks its way into theaters in September.

San Diego Comic-Con runs from July 19-22, and IGN will be on location to provide you with live coverage from the event. Check out our guide on how to watch Comic-Con 2018 live on IGN, and be sure to bookmark IGN's SDDC hub page, where you'll be able to keep up with all the big trailer reveals, panel reactions, and more.
