title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
What Did You Think of This Week's Comics?|http://www.ign.com/comics|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/06/what-did-you-think-of-this-weeks-comics-september-6-2018||2018-09-06|||Share. Batman gets a little guidance from Nightwing. Batman gets a little guidance from Nightwing.

It was another big week for the comic book industry, especially with new issues of Batman and The Walkking Dead hitting the stands. DC also debuted the latest addition to the Jinxworld line, as Brian Bendis and David Mack kicked off Cover.

Scroll down to check out our new reviews and thinkpieces, and be sure to let us know your favorite books of the week in the comments below.

Batman #54 Review

Written by Tom King | Drawn by Matt Wagner

"Even taking the story completely out of the equation, Batman #54 is notable for marking the long overdue return of artist Matt Wagner to the Batman franchise. It's a shame that said return had to become embroiled in such pointless scandal, but the fact remains that Wagner is the latest in a series of talented artists to leave their mark on this series. Couple that with the appeal of having writer Tom King reconnect with Dick Grayson, and this issue never fails to please." -Jesse

Click here to read the entire review!

Final Score:

8.2

Batman #50: Every Comic Cover for Batman and Catwoman's Wedding 10+ IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 42 Click through to see every variant cover DC Comics has revealed for Batman's big milestone issue. 01 OF 42 Click through to see every variant cover DC Comics has revealed for Batman's big milestone issue. Batman #50: Every Comic Cover for Batman and Catwoman's Wedding Download Image Captions ESC

Cover #1 Review

Written by Brian Michael Bendis | Drawn by David Mack

"Even ignoring his more mainstream projects, Brian Bendis' recent move to DC Comics has been worth it for the impact its had on his creator-owned projects. Cover is the third new Jinxworld project to launch in recent weeks. And that's not even counting The United States vs. Murder Inc. #1, also out this week. It's enough to wonder if DC is launching too many books in too short a span of time. Fortunately, Cover #1 has no trouble standing out even in the wake of Pearl #1 and Scarlet #1. It's a no-brainer for anyone who's been a fan of Bendis and David Mack's previous collaborations." -Jesse

Click here to read the entire review!

Final Score:

8.6

The Walking Dead #183 Review

Written by Robert Kirkman | Drawn by Charlie Adlard

"The fundamental problem with The Walking Dead right now is that the series seems to be going nowhere fast, despite the wide-open canvas the current status quo provides. That all finally seems to be changing in issue #183. This latest chapter sheds a deeper light on life in the Commonwealth and the downsides of living in the most "civilized" society in the post-post-apocalypse. This abrupt shift in tone and focus doesn't immediately solve all the series' woes, but it's a definite step in the right direction." -Jesse

Click here to read the entire review!

Final Score:

7.4

The 22 Best Marvel, DC and Indie Comics of 2018 (So Far) 10+ IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 23 From superheroes to creator-owned dramas, these are the most impressive comic books of 2018 so far. 01 OF 23 From superheroes to creator-owned dramas, these are the most impressive comic books of 2018 so far. The 22 Best Marvel, DC and Indie Comics of 2018 (So Far) Download Image Captions ESC

Why Moon Knight is Marvel's Most Underrated Comic

"Marvel has had a pretty strong year in 2018, with titles like The Avengers, Black Panther and Venom relaunching to impressive sales and critical acclaim. But amid all the fuss over Marvel's Fresh Start relaunch and major crossovers like Infinity Wars, one book seems to be consistently overlooked. Moon Knight has been one of Marvel's most underappreciated books for years now. That's more true than ever in 2018." -Jesse

Click here to read the full article!

Exit Theatre Mode

Jesse is a mild-mannered writer for IGN. Allow him to lend a machete to your intellectual thicket by following @jschedeen on Twitter, or Kicksplode on MyIGN.
