title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Where Are The Avengers in Spider-Man on PS4?|http://www.ign.com/comics|https://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/07/where-are-the-avengers-in-spider-man-on-ps4?read||2018-09-07|||Share. Tracking down Marvel's premiere superhero team. Tracking down Marvel's premiere superhero team.

While swinging around in Spider-Man on PS4, it’s hard not to notice Avengers Tower. But where are all of Earth’s Mightiest Heroes in the game? We have some clues that may answer that very question.

Warning: light spoilers for Spider-Man on PS4!

When you take a picture of Avengers Tower for the first time as part of your side quest to photograph different Landmarks, you’re treated to a short but important bit of dialogue from Spider-Man: “Avengers Tower, so cool! Too bad they’re never around to use it. They’re on the west coast or something. Probably surfing.”

If you want to take that line at face value, it means that the Avengers are simply out catching some waves on the Pacific. That’s an easy enough way to explain why they’re not in the game.

It could also be seen as a nod to the upcoming Avengers Project game from Square Enix, which is being worked on in-part by Crystal Dynamics, based out of California.

But if you want to really read into it, and that’s exactly what we're here to do, then the line actually tells us a ton about the current state of the Avengers in this game’s version of the Marvel Universe.

The Top 25 Marvel Villains 10+ IMAGES Fullscreen Image Artboard 3 Copy Artboard 3 ESC 01 OF 26 Scroll through for our list of the top 25 Marvel Comics villains of all time! 01 OF 26 Scroll through for our list of the top 25 Marvel Comics villains of all time! The Top 25 Marvel Villains Download Image Captions ESC

Longtime Marvel fans will recognize the line as a reference to a team from the comics called the West Coast Avengers. But it could be much more than just a fun call-out because that team was formed at a key moment in Marvel history.

The West Coast Avengers first assembled as a result of Secret Wars where the manipulative, omnipotent being known as the Beyonder kidnapped Marvel’s most powerful heroes and villains, brought them to a place called Battleworld, and made them fight it out to see who was better. While they were away, the Vision became chairman of the Avengers, and when they returned, Vision wanted the Avengers to have a larger presence and commissioned the West Coast Avengers out of a new Avengers Compound in sunny Los Angeles, California. The initial team was led by Hawkeye and featured Wonder Man, Mockingbird, Tigra and James Rhodes in the Iron Man armor.

Suddenly, Spidey's subtle line takes on a whole new meaning. It could mean that the Avengers aren’t in New York City because they’re pre-occupied elsewhere -- maybe they’re fighting in the Secret Wars like in the comics or they could be battling Ultron in Eastern Europe or trying to stop Thanos in space. The point is, the Avengers seem to be otherwise indisposed, which would explain why we never see Iron Man flying by or why Captain America doesn’t show up when, you know, the city is being devastated by animal-themed super villains.

This makes sense on a practical level because we’re playing a Spider-Man game and it wouldn’t be much fun if someone like Thor is flying around New York City calling down the lightning on all the bad guys before your Spidey-sense even goes off. If the game was going to include Avengers Tower, then the folks at Insomniac Games had to find a way to address where they are, and this vague explanation is juuust enough to give us a general idea of why the Avengers are not around: They’re busy avenging!

Make sure to check out our interview with lead creative designer Bryan Initihar on how the game reinvents Spider-Man's mythology:

Exit Theatre Mode

Joshua is Senior Editor of IGN Comics. If Pokemon, Green Lantern, or Game of Thrones are frequently used words in your vocabulary, you’ll want to follow him on Twitter @JoshuaYehl and IGN.
