title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
White Boy Rick Review|http://www.ign.com/nintendo|http://www.ign.com/articles/2018/09/08/white-boy-rick-review||2018-09-08|Review By||Share. A well-acted but hurried true crime tale. A well-acted but hurried true crime tale.

When White Boy Rick works, it is a beautiful and heartfelt drama about family and the injustice of the legal system when it comes to the war on drugs, featuring stunning performances by both established actors and a promising newcomer. But the second half of the film loses itself and rushes through the most interesting aspects of the story.

You may be forgiven for thinking Yann Demange’s sophomore feature was going to be like Scarface. It’s got everything you would want out of a crime film – an underdog in a bad family situation who suddenly becomes successful by selling crack cocaine at age 15. Yet White Boy Rick has more in common with Spring Breakers than Scarface. This is a film about the optimism of a family who is convinced hard work will make anyone achieve the American Dream, and how that family can endure the hardships of the '80s drug epidemic.

The film centers on Richard Wershe, Jr. (newcomer Richie Merritt) and his father Richard Sr. (Matthew McConaughey in a career-redefining role). Richard is a licensed gun dealer who resells guns under the table to drug dealers, but he dreams of going legitimate and opening up his own video store. Rick’s mom left the family years before, and his older sister Dawn (Bel Powley) is struggling with drug addiction. They are the type of family who fights aloud in the middle of the street before Grandpa (Bruce Dern, doing some much-needed comic relief) gets out of his car and starts yelling too.

Roger Ebert used to say that films are an empathy machine, and White Boy Rick exudes empathy for its titular character and his situation. We know Richard Sr. Is doing some shady things, but we feel for them and how they are all just trying to support the family. McConaughey plays him as a vulnerable and passive man who's trying to catch a lucky break. After becoming friends with members of a drug gang he sells his father's guns to, Ricky is approached by the FBI and forced to work as an informant for them – or else they will shut down his father’s business and charge him with a felony.

Exit Theatre Mode

Richie Merritt didn’t have previous acting experience when he got the role of Ricky, and that’s exactly why his performance works. He sells the feeling of being a teenager and thinking everything is a game, yet also conveys the gravitas of the character and the inner conflict of wanting to take his newfound role as a crack cocaine dealer seriously to support his family and newborn daughter. At 17.

Unfortunately, the film’s fast pace works against it, as much of the second act feels rushed and glosses over a lot of events that seem important, like Ricky becoming a father and his sister returning home. Instead we get a focus on Ricky’s criminal career, despite having seen that countless times before, and despite Bruce Dern and Piper Laurie’s best efforts, the film lacks a proper sense of humor to balance the drama. On the upside, the score by Max Richter is a standout. Richter's score pulls all the right emotional strings, creating an atmosphere that makes us feel for the characters even if they aren't saying anything.

Then there’s the political message of White Boy Rick as characters repeatedly say how it would be better to kill someone with a gun that sell drugs in the eyes of the law. It’s a powerful message brought home by a climatic twist that will have many audience members leave the theater in tears. If only they had spent more time on that twist instead of leaving it to expository text just before the end credits. By the time you find out the real story of White Boy Rick, you will be outraged at real life politics, but more importantly you will have feel for this boy and his family.
