title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
An Online Generation Redefines Mourning|http://cnn.com/opinions|http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/23/fashion/an-online-generation-redefines-mourning.html?hpw&rref=fashion||2014-03-23|||Meanwhile, “Girls,” the HBO show about young people making their way in modern-day Brooklyn, has twice tackled the issue of grief and death this season, first when Hannah Horvath’s e-book editor, David, is found dead in the Hudson River. “Do you happen to know another publisher that I could maybe slip the manuscript to if I decide that I really want to try to keep it alive?” Ms. Horvath asks her editor’s widow at his funeral. (She promptly tells Hannah, using an expletive, to leave the reception; the protagonist seems to become more sensitive later in the season, when her grandmother dies.)

The show also highlighted how the Internet has made grief more public and casual, and therefore more fraught. “Why aren’t you mourning quietly?” asks Adam, Hannah’s boyfriend, after she reads him a part of her editor’s obituary on Gawker, which in real life has a tag called “And Now They’re Dead.” Twitter responses to death, like the hashtag RIP, which was widely used after the news of the fashion designer L’Wren Scott’s suicide, can also seem more like display than distress.

Ms. Birkner, a former obituary writer, said: “It’s not the nature of social media, generally, to react thoughtfully to things and think, ‘How can I really help?’ It would be great if everyone said, ‘Can I buy your groceries, or can I start a meal train?’ ”

Last February, on what would have been Ms. Rosenthal’s 28th birthday, Ms. Feldman found a long post on her dead friend’s Facebook wall from another friend speculating about how Ms. Rosenthal had died. “A lot of what she wrote wasn’t true,” Ms. Feldman said. “Becca’s mother was so upset, and I spent the whole day trying to do crisis management.” Ms. Feldman’s explanation for that kind of behavior is “performative grief,” she said, adding: “That’s the only excuse I can think of. The nature of the Internet allows for that sort of self-indulgent, ‘look at me’ behavior.” On the other hand, Ms. Birkner said she found support on Facebook on long-forgotten death anniversaries.

“It’s such a push-pull around the pros of allowing for a sense of community that the Internet builds and the distancing that it allows from having to personally interact with others, ” said Heather Servaty-Seib, a professor at Purdue in the field of thanatology, the study of death and dying, with an emphasis on adolescent grief.

Then there’s the lingua franca of social media — the like button — that’s totally discordant with death. “My God, is there anything creepier than a post announcing someone lost a loved one and seeing ‘136 people like this’ underneath?” Ms. Soffer said. Facebook floated the idea of a “sympathize button,” something that came out of its annual hackathon, but has no plans to pursue it, according to the company. (Facebook does offer an option to memorialize an account that prevents anyone from logging into it in the future, but allows friends and family, depending on privacy setting, to leave posts on the timeline.)
