title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
How outrage over Cecil killing misses the point|http://cnn.com/opinions|http://cnn.com/2015/07/31/opinions/ghitis-cecil-outrage/index.html||2015-07-31|Frida Ghitis||Story highlights Frida Ghitis: Outrage over Cecil trophy kill went viral, spawned outrage backlash from those who say moral compass is skewed

What about human suffering in Zimbabwe, Syria, among refugees?

Frida Ghitis is a world affairs columnist for the Miami Herald and World Politics Review and a former CNN producer and correspondent. Follow her @FridaGhitis. The opinions expressed in this commentary are hers.

(CNN) Of all the stories you heard in the news in the past few days, which one moved you the most? Which outraged you, brought you to tears, led you to action? Which did you talk about with your friends, post on Facebook, discuss on Twitter? If the answer is the killing of Cecil the lion, you are in lots of company.

Frida Ghitis

By now, it seems, most people agree that the killing, apparently for fun, of the majestic lion by a Minnesota dentist visiting Zimbabwe was a perplexing act of pointless cruelty and cowardice. It spawned millions of posts on Facebook and Twitter -- a kind of outrage tsunami.

Cecil, who was apparently well-known and loved in the natural park where he lived in Zimbabwe, died in a most unnatural way, lured from his home and slaughtered. (The dentist, now perhaps fearing for his life, has apparently gone into hiding.)

The intensity of the backlash over the trophy killing has triggered a counter-backlash. Why, some are now asking, do people care so much about the death of a lion when so many human beings are suffering and dying? The surge of sorrow for a dead lion, they say, when compared to the relative quiet about other wrongs, reveals a moral flaw in our humanity, a defect in our moral compass.

Photos: Big beasts, big business: The countries cashing in on wildlife tours



For decades, the majestic wildlife found across Africa has been a major draw for tourists wanting to catch a glimpse of roaring lions, towering elephants and rare rhinos.



But wildlife tourism should always be a case of look, but don&#39;t touch.



For several African countries, wildlife is more than a tourism treasure. It&#39;s also a key source of revenue. A recent The brutal killing of Cecil , Zimbabwe&#39;s famous black mane lion, has caused outrage around the world, highlighting once more the persistent threats faced by endangered animals.For decades, the majestic wildlife found across Africa has been a major draw for tourists wanting to catch a glimpse of roaring lions, towering elephants and rare rhinos.But wildlife tourism should always be a case of look, but don&#39;t touch.For several African countries, wildlife is more than a tourism treasure. It&#39;s also a key source of revenue. A recent study by the United Nations World Tourism Organization (UNTWO) compiled figures from government and tour operators throughout the continent to assess the state of the wildlife tourism industry. It found that the industry contributes 80% of international travel sales to the continent, a large percentage of the $34.2 billion African tourism industry. Hide Caption 1 of 7 Photos: Big beasts, big business: The countries cashing in on wildlife tours



Watch: Wildlife tourism is booming in Africa One of the best performing sub-sectors within the wildlife tourism industry is gorilla treks, such as in Bwindi Forest National Park , Uganda. Permits to visit a gorilla family cost between $500-700, meaning the forest, home to roughly half the world&#39;s wild mountain gorillas, generates approximately $15 million annually. Hide Caption 2 of 7 Photos: Big beasts, big business: The countries cashing in on wildlife tours The Serengeti-Ngorongoro southern circuit, a key migration route, is another tourist hotspot. It receives 300,000 visitors a year, spending $500 million in total on trips to the 300-kilometer stretch between Arusha and Serengeti, Tanzania. Hide Caption 3 of 7 Photos: Big beasts, big business: The countries cashing in on wildlife tours Of the countries who submitted data, 14 generated a total of approximately $142 million in entrance fees to protected parks, bolstering the coffers of various conservation initiatives. Around half of operators contribute to anti-poaching projects, and governments are taking steps to counter the elevated threat in recent years. Hide Caption 4 of 7 Photos: Big beasts, big business: The countries cashing in on wildlife tours UNTWO worked out that across the continent, the average wildlife tour lasts 10 days, has six participants and costs $433 per day. It also found that France, the UK, the U.S., Germany and Portugal are the biggest long-haul markets for Africa. Hide Caption 5 of 7 Photos: Big beasts, big business: The countries cashing in on wildlife tours There&#39;s more to wildlife tourism than safaris. Although 96% of operators questioned did offer them, bird watching tours, whale watching and a variety of treks also came under the UNWTO&#39;s census. One of the most popular non-safari activities in Zambia is a visit to Victoria Falls -- 30% of tourists will make the trip to the 1,708-meter wide falls, the &quot; largest curtain of water in the world. Hide Caption 6 of 7 Photos: Big beasts, big business: The countries cashing in on wildlife tours Globally there were 12 million wildlife tourism trips in 2013 (the last full year of data available), and numbers are rising 10% annually, suggesting positive signs for the industry -- should it counter the existential threats to it, such as &quot;the dramatic increase

in poaching and illicit trade of wildlife products since 2005,&quot; which &quot;threatens to undermine conservation achievements,&quot; according to UNTWO. Hide Caption 7 of 7

This view is bringing together an unlikely collection of suddenly like-minded critics. From the left and the right, there is a growing sense that the outpouring of grief for Cecil is unseemly.
