title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Migrant caravan resumes march northward from Mexico-Guatemala border|http://cnn.com/americas|http://cnn.com/2018/10/21/americas/migrant-caravan-mexico/index.html||2018-10-21|Dakin Andone,Patrick Oppmann,Natalie Gallón||Near Tapachula, Mexico (CNN) Crowds of migrants resumed their long journey north on Sunday from the Mexican border city of Ciudad Hidalgo, according to Mexican federal police officers.

The caravan was headed for Tapachula, a city about 37 km (23 miles) north of the Mexico-Guatemala border, the officers told CNN.

There were about 10 buses awaiting migrants along the highway between Tapachula and Ciudad Hidalgo and the drivers had been instructed to carry the migrants to shelters in Tapachula, the officers said. It was unclear how many of the group were from the migrant caravan and how many were Mexicans who joined the march.

One migrant, a 20-year-old Honduran named William, told CNN he crossed into Mexico via a float that carried him across the muddy Suchiate River on Saturday.

A 20-year-old migrant named William said he left Honduras looking for work.

He left home looking for work, he said, and was ultimately bound for either Mexico or the US -- wherever he could land a job.

&quot;There is no work back home,&quot; he told CNN. &quot;No future.&quot;

Approximately 640 migrants requested asylum in Mexico, according to a statement from the Mexican government and the National Migration Institute.

Authorities have given &quot;priority attention to 164 women, 104 children and elders,&quot; the statement said, adding that some of the women are pregnant and there is at least one unaccompanied minor.

An additional statement from the Mexican government said there were 2,2000 migrants remaining on the bridge connecting Guatemala and Mexico, and about 900 tried to cross into Mexico illegally.

The Honduran Foreign Ministry previously said 2,000 people in the caravan had turned around and headed home.

Thousands of Central American migrants fleeing poverty and violence were initially prevented from crossing the bridge.

On Friday Mexican authorities began allowing a trickle of migrants, starting with women and children, to pass through the gates and board buses bound for refugee camps.

Caravan of migrants continues trip into Mexico, thousands of people. pic.twitter.com/VbZWFjxzQC — Patrick Oppmann CNN (@CNN_Oppmann) October 21, 2018

Others pushed through or climbed over a steel gate before riot police stopped them with tear gas and smoke canisters. Some migrants collapsed, coughing or weeping, according video from the scene.

It&#39;s unclear exactly how many migrants were allowed to legally cross the border into Mexico, where they were taken to shelters to rest. On Saturday, with the punishing heat bearing down on them, some migrants took matters into their own hands, and crossed into Mexico on rafts that ferried them across the river.

We confirmed the Guatemala side is open if #CaravanaMigrantes wants to go back. But some are choosing to jump pic.twitter.com/DEvQSPoJoX — Bill Weir (@BillWeirCNN) October 20, 2018

One of the migrants marching to Ciudad Hidalgo, Luis Miguel Martinez, 30, also said his goal was to find work in the United States so he could feed his family, including two daughters he left behind in Honduras.

He was carrying a pink backpack and a blanket for a woman who also had a small child. But he was happy to help.

&quot;We are one group,&quot; he said. &quot;One people.&quot;

What happens next?

It&#39;s unclear whether the caravan will be allowed to reach the US border. Mexican authorities previously outlined their plan to respond to the caravan once it arrived at their border.

• Anyone with a valid visa will be able to enter and move freely.

• Anyone who wants to be recognized as a refugee or as a beneficiary of &quot;complementary protection measures&quot; must do so individually. Those who do so will be held &quot;at a migratory station&quot; for as many as 45 business days.

• Anyone who enters &quot;in an irregular manner&quot; will be &quot;rescued and subject to an administrative procedure and, where appropriate, will be returned to their country of origin in a safe and orderly manner.&quot;

Photos: A migrant caravan headed to the United States walks into the interior of Mexico after crossing the Guatemalan border on Sunday, October 21. Hide Caption 1 of 42 Photos: Migrants still on the Guatemalan side of the border sleep at a temporary immigrant shelter on Sunday in Ciudad Tecun Uman, Guatemala. The caravan of thousands of Central Americans made it&#39;s way into Mexico with some members hoping to eventually reach the United States. Hide Caption 2 of 42 Photos: Honduran migrants, part of a caravan heading towards the United States, travel on the road linking Ciudad Hidalgo and Tapachula, Chiapas state, Mexico, on Sunday. Hide Caption 3 of 42 Photos: Central American migrants walking to the United States continue their journey, departing Ciudad Hidalgo, Mexico, on Sunday. Hide Caption 4 of 42 Photos: A Honduran migrant boy, part of a caravan heading to the United States, walks on the road linking Ciudad Hidalgo and Tapachula, Chiapas state, Mexico, on Sunday. Hide Caption 5 of 42 Photos: Honduran migrants who have already reached Mexican soil cheer at the rest of the group still waiting to cross at the Guatemala-Mexico border bridge in Ciudad Hidalgo, Mexico, on Saturday, October 20. Hide Caption 6 of 42 Photos: Children of migrants, part of the caravan, on Saturday wait with their parents to apply for asylum in Mexico at a checkpoint in Ciudad Hidalgo, Mexico. Hide Caption 7 of 42 Photos: A Honduran migrant mother and her son walk through the bridge after crossing the border between Guatemala and Mexico on Saturday. Hide Caption 8 of 42 Photos: Honduran migrants in the caravan hold a demonstration Saturday demanding authorities allow the rest of the group to cross in Ciudad Hidalgo, Mexico. Hide Caption 9 of 42 Photos: Mexican paramedics help a Honduran woman who fainted after crossing the border between Guatemala and Mexico on Saturday. Hide Caption 10 of 42 Photos: Honduran migrants help some of their members get down to the Suchiate River from the Guatemala-Mexico international border bridge in Ciudad Hidalgo on Saturday. Hide Caption 11 of 42 Photos: A migrant is comforted by a Mexican paramedic after her mother fainted while crossing the border between Guatemala and Mexico. Hide Caption 12 of 42 Photos: Honduran migrants from the caravan on Saturday cross the Suchiate River, a natural border between Guatemala and Mexico. Hide Caption 13 of 42 Photos: A Honduran migrant looks through the gate on the bridge that connects Mexico and Guatemala in Tecun Uman, Guatemala, on Saturday. Hide Caption 14 of 42 Photos: Migrants in the caravan wait on Saturday for the opening of the gate on the bridge that connects Guatemala to Mexico. Hide Caption 15 of 42 Photos: Thousands of Honduran migrants rush across the border toward Mexico, in Tecun Uman, Guatemala, Friday, October 19. Hide Caption 16 of 42 Photos: A Honduran man protects his child after fellow migrants, part of a caravan trying to reach the United States, stormed a border checkpoint in Guatemala, in Ciudad Hidalgo, Mexico, Friday, October 19. Hide Caption 17 of 42 Photos: Honduran migrants, part of a caravan trying to reach the United States, storm a border checkpoint to cross into Mexico, in Tecun Uman, Guatemala, Friday, October 19. Hide Caption 18 of 42 Photos: Mexican federal police officers allow women and children taking part in a caravan of Honduran migrants heading to the United States to cross to Mexico in the border city of Tecun Uman, Guatemala, on Friday, October 19. Hide Caption 19 of 42 Photos: An aerial view shows a Honduran migrant caravan heading to the United States as it is stopped at a border barrier on the Guatemala-Mexico international bridge in Ciudad Hidalgo, Mexico, on Friday, October 19. Hide Caption 20 of 42 Photos: Honduran migrants heading in a caravan to the United States remove a barrier at the Guatemala-Mexico border bridge in Ciudad Hidalgo, Mexico, on Friday, October 19. Hide Caption 21 of 42 Photos: A child is lifted over the border fence as thousands of Honduran migrants rush across the border toward Mexico, in Tecun Uman, Guatemala, Friday, October 19. Hide Caption 22 of 42 Photos: A Honduran migrant mother and child are surrounded by Mexican Federal Police in riot gear, at the border crossing in Ciudad Hidalgo, Mexico, Friday, October 19. Hide Caption 23 of 42 Photos: A Honduran migrant, part of a caravan trying to reach the United States, storms the checkpoint between Guatemala and Mexico in Tecun Uman, Guatemala, Friday, October 19. Hide Caption 24 of 42 Photos: Honduran migrants heading in a caravan to the United States rush through the Guatemala-Mexico border bridge after tearing down its gate in Ciudad Hidalgo, Mexico, on Friday, October 19. Hide Caption 25 of 42 Photos: Honduran migrants heading in a caravan to the United States crowd the gate of the Guatemala-Mexico border bridge in Ciudad Hidalgo, Mexico, on Friday, October 19. Hide Caption 26 of 42 Photos: Honduran migrants wait at the Mexican border in Tecun Uman, Guatemala, on Friday, October 19. Thousands of migrants traveling in a caravan briefly moved toward the border crossing between the two countries before turning around. Guatemala has closed its border gate and is standing guard with dozens of troops and two armored jeeps. Hide Caption 27 of 42 Photos: Honduran migrants leave Guatemala City, Guatemala, at sunrise on Thursday, October 18, 2018, as they make their way north toward the United States. Many of the more than 2,000 Hondurans in a migrant caravan trying to wend its way to the United States left spontaneously with little more than the clothes on their backs and what they could quickly throw into backpacks. Hide Caption 28 of 42 Photos: Migrants display the flag of Honduras while on a caravan of migrants en route to the Mexican border on Thursday in Guatemala City. The caravan of thousands of Central Americans, most from Honduras, hopes to eventually reach the United States. President Donald Trump has threatened to cancel the recent trade deal with Mexico and withhold aid to Central American countries if the caravan isn&#39;t stopped before reaching the United States. Hide Caption 29 of 42 Photos: A Honduran migrant, part of a caravan trying to reach the United States, pushes a stroller with a boy during a new leg of their travel in Guatemala City on Thursday. Hide Caption 30 of 42 Photos: Honduran migrants in the caravan are pictured inside a truck on Thursday. Hide Caption 31 of 42 Photos: Honduran migrants hike in the forest after crossing the Lempa River, on the border between Honduras and Guatemala, to join the caravan on Thursday. Hide Caption 32 of 42 Photos: Honduran migrants climb into the bed of a truck in Zacapa, Guatemala, on Wednesday, October 17, 2018. Hide Caption 33 of 42 Photos: A Honduran migrant, part of the caravan, rests on a street as he looks through his mobile phone in Guatemala City on Wednesday. Hide Caption 34 of 42 Photos: A child lies on the ground to rest as Honduran migrants take part in a caravan to the United States in Teculutan, Guatemala, on Wednesday. Hide Caption 35 of 42 Photos: Honduran migrants heading to the United States rest at a gymnasium of a Catholic church in Chiquimula, Guatemala, on Tuesday, October 16, 2018. The caravan set out October 13 from the impoverished, violence-plagued country. Hide Caption 36 of 42 Photos: Honduran migrants pray at an improvised shelter in Chiquimula, Guatemala, on Tuesday. Hide Caption 37 of 42 Photos: Families in the caravan rest for the night in a community gym on Tuesday in Chiquimula, Guatemala. The caravan is the second of its size in 2018. Hide Caption 38 of 42 Photos: Honduran migrants move north on Tuesday near Quezaltepeque, Guatemala. Hide Caption 39 of 42 Photos: Honduran migrants holds up their national ID cards as Guatemalan police block them and their caravan after the group crossed the Honduras-Guatemala border in Esquipulas, Guatemala, on Monday, October 15, 2018. Police stopped the migrants for several hours but the travelers refused to return to the border and were eventually allowed to pass. Hide Caption 40 of 42 Photos: The caravan moves north after crossing the border from Honduras into Guatemala on Monday. Hide Caption 41 of 42 Photos: The caravan pauses at a Guatemalan police checkpoint after crossing the border from Honduras on Monday. Hide Caption 42 of 42

Caravan is an &#39;organized effort,&#39; Pompeo says

Its slow procession north has prompted US President Donald Trump to threaten to cut aid to Central American nations and to send troops to the US border if Mexico fails to stop the surge.

US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo met with top officials in Mexico City on Friday night to discuss the caravan and other matters. Speaking to reporters on a tarmac, Pompeo accused the caravan of using women and children &quot;as shields as they make their way through.&quot;

&quot;This is an organized effort to come through and violate the sovereignty of Mexico,&quot; Pompeo said.

The caravan formed just weeks before the US midterm elections. And many Republican candidates have echoed Trump&#39;s rhetoric about boosting border security and cracking down on illegal immigration.

The US President has pointed to the caravan as a key issue in the upcoming elections, and has used it to attack Democrats, saying -- without evidence -- they wanted the caravan to arrive before Election Day so the migrants would vote for Democrats.

But as asylum-seekers, the migrants would not be citizens and would not be allowed to vote.
