title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Mike Pence's plan to outlast Trump|http://cnn.com/opinions|http://cnn.com/2018/08/28/opinions/mike-pence-plan-to-outlast-trump-dantonio-eisner/index.html||2018-08-28|Michael D'Antonio,Peter Eisner||This article is the first in a series of three by Michael D'Antonio and Peter Eisner, the authors of the new book, "The Shadow President: The Truth About Mike Pence." The opinions expressed in this commentary are their own. View more opinion articles on CNN.

(CNN) Now familiar as a smiling, nodding presence at the President's side, Mike Pence was little known outside of his home state of Indiana when Donald Trump selected him as his running mate in 2016. A bit more than two years later, as he crisscrosses America to campaign for Republicans in the midterm elections, Pence is setting himself up to replace his boss if Trump leaves office early or does not seek re-election.

"Mike will be ready" is the line Pence's aides and allies use as they contemplate his place in a post-Trump world.

Michael D'Antonio

Peter Eisner

Pence would never admit this. He plays the part of unctuous toady so fully that the conservative writer George Will called him "America's most repulsive public figure." But don't be fooled. The vice president is doggedly pursuing his own ambitions on the side. The Oval Office has been his goal since high school. He has seeded the federal government with his loyalists and is building his own nationwide political organization.

He is acting, in fact, as if he is on a mission from God. Some may laugh, but many conservative Christians believe that God is merely using Trump to prepare the way for a so-called true man of faith. Pence's rise to power would affirm the " Cyrus prophecy, " which became a popular notion among Christian right circles when Pence joined the 2016 ticket.

Cyrus was a Persian king whom the Old Testament credits with returning the Jews to Jerusalem. He was a pagan who nevertheless served God. Right-wing evangelists such as Lance Wallnau cited that tale in 2016 when they declared that Trump -- a profane and sinful man -- could nevertheless do God's work and was thus worthy of conservative Christian votes. An estimated 80% of white evangelicals gave Trump their votes.

Read More
