title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Parents-to-be Meghan and Harry kick off Australia tour with baby gifts|http://cnn.com/australia|http://cnn.com/2018/10/15/australia/meghan-harry-australia-intl/index.html||2018-10-15|Joshua Berlinger||(CNN) It&#39;s been less than 24-hours since Meghan Markle and Prince Harry announced that they were expecting their first child, but the royal couple are already being showered in baby gifts.

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex began the first day of their first Australian tour with an official welcome ceremony at Admiralty House in Sydney, where they were presented with some quintessentially Aussie gifts -- a pair of baby Ugg boots and a kangaroo doll.

The gifts were given to Meghan and Harry by Governor-General Sir Peter Cosgrove, Queen Elizabeth II&#39;s official representative in Australia, and his wife, Lynne Cosgrove.

Photos: Britain&#39;s Prince Harry and Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex, attend a lunchtime reception hosted by Prime Minister Scott Morrison in Sydney, Australia, on Sunday, October 21. Hide Caption 1 of 31 Photos: Prince Harry meets Australian athlete Ben Yeomans during the Invictus Games Cycling at the Royal Botanical Gardens on Sunday in Sydney. Hide Caption 2 of 31 Photos: Harry and Meghan cheer on sailors during day two of the Invictus Games in Sydney on Sunday. Hide Caption 3 of 31 Photos: Britain&#39;s Prince Harry and Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex, talk with school children in Sydney on Sunday. Hide Caption 4 of 31 Photos: Harry and Meghan view the Hall of Memory on Saturday, October 20, at the official opening of ANZAC Memorial in Sydney. Hide Caption 5 of 31 Photos: Harry and Meghan speak with Governor of New South Wales David Hurley and his wife, Linda Hurley, before attending the opening of the enhanced ANZAC Memorial in Sydney. Hide Caption 6 of 31 Photos: Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, watches as Prince Harry operates a remote-control car at the Invictus Games driving challenge on Saturday, on Cockatoo Island in Sydney. Hide Caption 7 of 31 Photos: Harry and Meghan watch a performance during their visit on Friday, October 19, to Macarthur Girls High School near Sydney. Hide Caption 8 of 31 Photos: Harry, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Invictus Games representatives climb the Sydney Harbour Bridge in Sydney. Hide Caption 9 of 31 Photos: Harry and Meghan talk with members of OneWave, an awareness group for mental health and well-being, at Bondi Beach, Sydney. Hide Caption 10 of 31 Photos: The Duke and Duchess meet Morrison and his wife, Jenny Morrison, at Kirribilli House in Sydney. Hide Caption 11 of 31 Photos: Harry hugs a member of the public as he arrives on Thursday, October 18, at the Royal Botanic Gardens in Melbourne, Australia. Hide Caption 12 of 31 Photos: Harry and Meghan speak with surf life savers at South Melbourne beach. Hide Caption 13 of 31 Photos: Crowds await the arrival of the Duke and Duchess at Government House in Melbourne. Hide Caption 14 of 31 Photos: Harry and Meghan visit Albert Park Primary School in Melbourne. Hide Caption 15 of 31 Photos: Governor of Victoria Linda Dessau and her husband, Anthony Howard, walk with Harry and Meghan at a reception at Government House in Melbourne. Hide Caption 16 of 31 Photos: Meghan holds an Australian rules football during a reception given by Dessau. Hide Caption 17 of 31 Photos: Harry and Meghan are greeted by 5-year-old Luke Vincent as they arrive on Wednesday, October 17, in Dubbo, Australia. Hide Caption 18 of 31 Photos: Harry and Meghan watch aboriginal dances from under an umbrella at Victoria Park in Dubbo. Hide Caption 19 of 31 Photos: Harry and Meghan unveil a new aircraft in the Royal Flying Doctor Service during their visit to Dubbo. Hide Caption 20 of 31 Photos: The royal couple visit the Woodleys, a farming family, in drought-stricken Dubbo. Hide Caption 21 of 31 Photos: Harry and Meghan meet a koala, named Ruby, and its joey, named Meghan, in honor of the duchess, during a visit on Tuesday, October 16, to Taronga Zoo in Sydney. Hide Caption 22 of 31 Photos: Harry and Meghan arrive at the landmark Sydney Opera House. Hide Caption 23 of 31 Photos: Harry and Meghan receive Australian baby gifts from Governor-General Sir Peter Cosgrove. Hide Caption 24 of 31 Photos: Harry and Meghan pose for a group photo at Admiralty House in Sydney with Cosgrove (front row, sixth from left); his wife, Lynn Cosgrove (fourth from left); and representatives of countries participating in the Invictus Games. Hide Caption 25 of 31 Photos: The Duke and Duchess ride in a boat across the Sydney Harbor en route to the opera house. Hide Caption 26 of 31 Photos: Harry is greeted by 98-year-old Sydney resident Daphne Dunne at the Sydney Opera House. Dunne had met Harry during his previous visits; the two shared a hug, and Harry introduced her to Meghan. Hide Caption 27 of 31 Photos: Harry and Meghan watch the rehearsal of the &quot;Spirit 2018&quot; performance by the Bangarra Dance Theatre company at the Sydney Opera House. Hide Caption 28 of 31 Photos: The Duke and Duchess meet an echidna held by Dr. Michelle Shaw during a visit to Taronga Zoo in Sydney. Echidnas sometimes are known as spiny anteaters. Hide Caption 29 of 31 Photos: Well-wishers take photos of Harry and Meghan outside the Sydney Opera House. Hide Caption 30 of 31 Photos: The Duke and Duchess hold hands as they walk inside after posing for a photo in Sydney. Hide Caption 31 of 31

Parents-to-be Megan, 37, and Harry, 34, announced their pregnancy Monday, just hours after they landed in Sydney. Tuesday marked their first public appearance since announcing the news

Their tour coincides with the third Invictus Games, an international sporting competition for wounded veterans and members of the military created by Prince Harry in 2014.

Read More
