title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Taylor Swift, if you're going to talk politics, dig deeper|http://cnn.com/opinions|http://cnn.com/2018/10/10/opinions/taylor-swift-gets-politics-wrong-carrie-sheffield/index.html||2018-10-10|Carrie Sheffield||Carrie Sheffield, a conservative commentator, is the founder of Bold, a digital news network committed to bipartisan dialogue. She is also National Editor for Accuracy in Media, a citizens' media watchdog whose mission is to promote accuracy, fairness and balance in news reporting. The views expressed here are solely hers. View more opinion articles on CNN.

(CNN) The problem with Taylor Swift's endorsement of Tennessee Democratic Senate candidate Phil Bredesen heading into Election Day isn't that she spoke out. Civic engagement is vital, especially among the many young people who adore Swift's music, and freedom of speech is a bedrock American principle.

Carrie Sheffield

The real problem with Swift's Instagram post was that she missed the bigger picture. It's a myopia typical of many young people, largely cultivated by insular reasoning prevalent in high schools and on college campuses , who focus on narrow wedge social issues without looking at broader macro conditions or grappling seriously with complex issues.

This is another common problem among young people — expressing anger and fear against a system rather than proactively seeking to change it. It's not unusual for some young people to miss the difference between expressive and persuasive communication, and while it's easy to sympathize with the impulse to express oneself, in a democracy failing to grasp this distinction can be a fatal flaw.

Our country needs persuasion backed by intellectual engagement more than expression bolstered by emotion right now.

Swift also risks a backlash from everyday Tennessee voters who believe she's lecturing them rather than trying to understand them -- the classic story of a hero who forgets her roots. Swift's hyperbolic wording, saying that Republican Senate candidate Rep. Marsha Blackburn's voting record in public service "appalls and terrifies me," and associating Blackburn with "systemic racism we still see in this country towards people of color" is one example of why our country is so divided right now.
