title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
4 Hip Family-Style Italian San Francisco Restaurants|http://sfinsider.sfgate.com|https://sfinsider.sfgate.com/4-hip-family-style-italian-san-francisco-restaurants-2/#comments||2018-10-18|Sf Insider||Family-style Italian in San Francisco is a great way to go for anyone who wants a delicious meal in a relaxed setting in the Bay Area. These restaurants and cafes serve classic Italian fare. Each venue puts its own spin on the classics, though, to deliver a unique dining experience.

Caffe Sport

Caffe Sport is known for the amazing food, though not so much for the appetizers it serves. The service is described as unique, too. Rather than the syrupy-sweet friendliness a lot of family-style restaurants dish out when serving customers. The service has been likened to that of the Soup Nazi on “Seinfeld,” and the crusty attitude of the servers is a long-standing tradition at Caffe Sport. Locals know and love it, though, and they love the dishes like Salmone Piccata.

Tommaso’s Ristorante Italiano

Bring on the pizza at Tommaso’s Ristorante Italiano. Tomasso’s has been part of the North Beach food scene since 1935, and it was the first restaurant on the West Coast with a wood-fired pizza oven. The pies dished out are created from classic Neapolitan recipes handed down through the generations. Tommaso’s Ristorante Italiano also serves fresh seafood dishes and is known for having an excellent wine selection.

Sotto Mare

The menu at North Beach’s Sotto Mare includes classic Italian pastas and seafood dishes that use locally sourced, fresh ingredients. The restaurant’s decor has a soft, casual elegance and is housed in a historic building from the Prohibition era. Guests take seats at a long, marble-topped bar or one of the tables at the side of the restaurant. Big pictures adorn the walls, and industrial-chic pendant lighting adds to the ambience. While all the seafood dishes are popular at Sotto Mare, guests rave about the Crab Cioppino.

Zero Zero

Dark wood and wrought iron decor accents give Zero Zero the look of a classic western restaurant, but the food is all Italian. The unexpected decor sets a casual, fun tone for the meal, and the bar provides a wide selection of drink options. This venue is kid-friendly, but there are no high chairs or booster seats, so parents need to plan ahead and bring their own if that’s needed. Some of the popular dishes at Zero Zero are the pizza, the rigatoni with duck confit and the pork meatballs.

These San Francisco restaurants invite diners to try delicacies like California-style pizzas, pastas that double as comfort foods and lighter fare that delivers the yum factor. Stop by to enjoy a satisfying family-style meal the next time you find yourself craving Italian food.
