title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
6 reasons to visit Mr. East Kitchen|http://www.sfgate.com|https://blog.sfgate.com/storystudio/2018/09/14/6-reasons-to-visit-mr-east-kitchen/||2018-09-14|||By StoryStudio

Image 1 of / 1 Caption Close 6 reasons to visit Mr. East Kitchen 1 / 1 Back to Gallery

Whether you’re visiting San Francisco or live here, you’re probably aware that there are plenty of food options around the city. But somehow, it can still be a struggle to find a place that’s just… good. Something light, refreshing, healthy, and satisfies that craving. Whether you want to grab a quick bite before heading to the mall, grabbing coffee after your workout, or looking for a spot to hang with your coworkers, Mr. East Kitchen is the place for you.

1. Good food comes first: At Mr. East Kitchen, it’s all about quality. They use healthy, fresh ingredients for all of their produce. Even their boba is made with Straus milk. Not only is it good food, but it’s good for you.

2. Do your own thing: They have a number of bowl base options that you can choose from: pho, garlic noodles, rice, salad, and banh mi. You can then choose your selection of toppings to build the perfect bowl for you. They offer a variety of gluten free, soy free, and dairy free options, to that there’s something for everyone. Pro tip: get the garlic noodles.

3. 2pm – 7pm are the happiest of hours: Whether you’re grabbing a late lunch with the team or an early dinner, stop by for happy hour from 2pm-7pm. You’ll get $1 off any purchase of a small plate and a beer. In case you’re looking for something heartier, they also have a selection of dinner plates that you can choose from, including options like sriracha bacon, curry prawns, and grilled snapper. Filling, but refreshing.

4. Breakfast when you need it: There’s few feelings worse than waking up on a lazy weekend morning, craving good ol’ breakfast food, and finding out that breakfast service has ended. At Mr. East Kitchen, breakfast and the bowl are served 9AM-3PM, so you can get your fix when you want it. Monday thru Friday you can also indulge in the breakfast sandwich and the bowl from 8AM-11AM.

5. Boba and coffee: Even if you’re not feeling hungry, Mr. East Kitchen is the kind of place you can go to for a quick drink. It’s your neighborhood boba shop and coffee shop blended in one.

6. The interiors are beautiful: this isn’t a grab-n-go only place where you won’t be able to find seating. The interiors here are the perfect blend of Bali meets minimalist hipster haven.

Mr. East Kitchen is located right at 5th and Folsom. Stop by today for a bowl, a boba, a breakfast, or all three!

…
