title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
A Classic California Day Starts With Bubbles from Domaine Chandon|http://www.sfgate.com|https://blog.sfgate.com/storystudio/2018/09/24/a-classic-california-day-starts-with-bubbles-from-domaine-chandon/||2018-09-24|||By StoryStudio

A lush, ivy-covered archway greets you amidst towering oak trees and magnificent views of rolling hills that stretch for miles. Ducks pleasantly glide across serene ponds that mirror a cerulean sky. The air is clear and crisp, and you drink it in with delight. You have arrived at Napa Valley’s sparkling sanctuary and your new home away from home—Domaine Chandon. Here, you embark on an endlessly luxurious, never-pretentious excursion, where every visit is reason for celebration.

Domaine Chandon captures the quintessential California day, bubbling over with effortless joy, comfort, and relaxation. No reservation is required to begin a carefree adventure with loved ones. Sprawling grass and tables tucked under cozy umbrellas create the perfect ambience for any type of gathering—Sunday Funday with friends, a date with your love, a bachelorette party, or a family affair. Indoors, plush couches and a cozy fire offer unparalleled relaxation. Tempt your tastebuds with the lounge menu, which includes savory treats like truffle popcorn, artisanal sandwiches, and cheese platters that your entire party will enjoy.

sunshine in a glass

Each of Domaine Chandon’s expertly crafted sparkling wines, from their classic Brut to their Rosé and Sweet Star, embody the down-to-earth, yet sophisticated charm of California. One taste can lead you from a light, fresh, fruity vibrancy to a seductive, sophisticated sweetness, as classic as it is exhilarating.

Pauline Lhote, Domaine Chandon’s director of winemaking, encapsulates California aesthetic by meticulously formulating wines best described as “sunshine in a glass.” She marries traditional winemaking from her native home, Champagne, France, with innovative vision, allowing Domaine Chandon to offer a robust variety of flavors that will tantalize any palate. It’s no wonder she was named one of Wine Enthusiast magazine’s 40 under 40 Tastemakers for 2017.

Enhance your sparkling-wine adventure by joining Club Chandon. You and a friend are greeted with a complimentary glass of bubbly and sumptuous seating, simply for being a member, but the party doesn’t end there. Receive exclusive access to limited-production wines and events, plus several discounts on sparkling and still wines. Exclusive clubs aren’t just for the privileged few anymore—Club Chandon welcomes you to enjoy bubbly benefits, because you deserve it.

Your secret party weapon for crafting the most delicious cocktails is awaiting you at Domaine Chandon’s Cocktail 101 Hosted Tasting. Their expert mixologist will guide you and your party through the colorful history of sparkling wine before teaching you how to make three delightful Chandon cocktails. You can even find festive food pairings on their website, like goat-cheese-stuffed phyllo swirls and bittersweet chocolate ganache tarts with sea salt, to ensure you are set for your holiday soiree. Introduce some fun into your holiday preparations, and make your Cocktail 101 reservation today.

Nothing says classic California like pink disco-ball glasses, vibrant water bottles, or comfy apparel. The Domaine Chandon gift shop has perfect presents for everyone in your life. A dazzling array of glassware and accessories guarantee you will not only satisfy your holiday-shopping requirements, but also leave with something special for yourself. What better way to commemorate a joyful sparkling-wine experience than by rocking “I’d Rather be in Napa” T-shirts with your friends? Fun is meant to be shared! That’s the ethos of #ChandonSquad—class and comfort go hand in hand, while tradition keeps you returning to build more memories with your crew.

Your holidays will sparkle more brightly with Limited Edition Winter Brut and Rosé LED bottles, decorated in partnership with BaubleBar. This jewelry and sparkling wine collaboration is sure to be the star of the season. Take your all your soirées to the next level while these bottles are available.

Enjoy a bottle of Blanc de Noirs or étoile Brut with your sweetheart as you ease into snuggly chairs under ancient Yountville oak trees. Or grab a glass of Sparkling Red, and share in spirited conversation with friends, at tables overlooking beautiful sights that only the heart of Napa Valley can offer. Domaine Chandon is your doorway to the bubbly side of California.
