title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
A look at postseason superlatives for Cal basketball|http://www.sfgate.com/collegesports|http://blog.sfgate.com/cal/2016/03/22/a-look-at-postseason-superlatives-for-cal-basketball/||2016-03-22|Connor Letourneau||The Chronicle is reviewing Cal basketball’s 2015-16 season in a multi-part series. The second installment: A look at player superlatives for the Bears (23-11, 12-6 Pac-12), who were upset Friday by Hawaii in the first round of the NCAA Tournament.

Team MVP

Tyrone Wallace. Jaylen Brown and Ivan Rabb earned first-team and second-team All-Pac-12 honors, respectively. So why is Wallace, an honorable mention All-Pac-12 selection, The Chronicle’s pick for team MVP? When healthy, he was the Bears’ best all-around player. Wallace led Cal with 15.3 points, 4.4 assists and one steal per game. He delivered his best performances when the Bears needed him most, including a 19-point second half eruption to power Cal to a March 5 win at Arizona State. Losing Wallace to his second hand injury in two months two days before the Bears’ NCAA Tournament opener was a major blow.

Preseason pick: Wallace

Best defender

Sam Singer. Cal led the Pac-12 in field goal percentage defense (39.6), scoring defense (67.3) and 2-point field goal percentage defense (41.5). So perhaps it’s a surprise that the Bears’ best defender was a backup point guard, someone who averaged just 19.9 minutes per game. Singer is a master at taking the proper angle to cut off his man. When Cal landed no one on the Pac-12’s all-defensive team, Cuonzo Martin pinpointed Singer as a glaring omission. It was a fair point.

Preseason pick: Stephen Domingo

Best newcomer

Jaylen Brown. Most of Pac-12 play, the freshman lived up to his five-star billing. He stayed out of foul trouble, piled up eye-popping highlights and provided solid man-to-man defense. It was no shocker when he was named Pac-12 Freshman of the Year, as well as first team All-Pac-12, by the conference’s coaches. Even though Brown ended the season in a five-game slump, he is widely expected to go in the top 10 of June’s NBA draft.

Preseason pick: Brown

Biggest comeback

Kameron Rooks. After missing last season with a torn ACL, the 7-foot Rooks emerged as an important piece of the rotation. His numbers — 3.6 points and 4.9 rebounds per game — were pedestrian. But Rooks’ contributions were still a big reason the Bears won 23 games. He guarded the league’s best big men and protected the rim. If not for Rooks and the 7-foot-1 Kingsley Okoroh patrolling the key, Cal would’ve been a middling defensive team.

Preseason pick: Rooks

Breakout star

Jordan Mathews. Given the additions of Rabb and Brown, Mathews wasn’t expected to be much more than a complementary piece this season. But there were a host of games that he was Cal’s best player. Mathews, who shot 41.6 percent from beyond the arc, proved he is far more than a shooter. He worked off screens, attacked lanes and created for others. Next season, Mathews could be an all-conference player.

Preseason pick: Bird

Most underrated

Jabari Bird. On a roster stocked with future pros, Bird wasn’t a focal point. His 10.4 points per game were fifth on the team. But Bird thrived down the stretch, shooting 54.5 percent from three-point range over his final 11 games. He was Cal’s most clutch shot-maker, a title he solidified in Las Vegas. Bird hit three second-half three-pointers in the Bears’ Pac-12 quarterfinal win over Oregon State. The next day, he twice netted go-ahead baskets late in Cal’s overtime loss to Utah.

Preseason pick: Singer

Biggest disappointment

Stephen Domingo. During the preseason, Martin made his expectations for Domingo clear: hit the occasional shot, offer quality defense and fill a rotation spot. The Georgetown transfer hardly lived up to that role. When given a significant opportunity in non-conference play, he didn’t produce. Domingo fell out of the rotation early in Pac-12 action. He finished the season shooting just 32.1 percent from the field and 27.3 percent from the free-throw line.

Preseason pick: N/A

Connor Letourneau is a San Francisco Chronicle staff writer. E-mail:cletourneau@sfchronicle.com Twitter: @Con_Chron.
