title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
A year later: The fuse that lit the Battles of Berkeley|http://blog.sfgate.com|http://blog.sfgate.com/inberkeley/2018/02/01/a-year-later-the-fuse-that-lit-the-battles-of-berkeley/|first of many violent clashes|2018-02-01|||By Frances Dinkelspiel



Thursday, Feb. 1 marks the one-year anniversary of Milo Yiannopoulos’ first, ill-fated visit to UC Berkeley.

Invited by the Berkeley College Republicans, Yiannopoulos had planned to make his speech the capstone event of his “Dangerous Faggot” tour through college campuses around the United States. The tech editor for the conservative news outlet Breitbart News, Yiannopoulos characterized his talks as a mixture of performance and provocation. He frequently made fun of, and criticized, what he considered political correctness. While many of his followers regarded his jabs as humorous, his detractors saw them as offensive and dangerous. Yiannopoulos had called feminism “cancer,” had labeled the Black Lives Matter movement a form of “black supremacism,” had characterized transgenderism as a form of “mental illness,” and had said efforts to diversity schools were “anti-White racism.”

Even before his visit, tensions on the mostly liberal UC Berkeley campus had been rising with the election of Donald Trump as president, and with his calls to ban Muslims and build a wall. Thousands of students and faculty had joined the women’s marches on Jan. 21. Some even showed up to a fabricated campus protest after a prank by a Russian troll. The decision by the Berkeley College Republicans (BCR) to bring Yiannopoulos to the university further exacerbated this tension. Members of BCR were “doxxed” (had their personal information spread on social media) and harassed. They, in turn, crashed an anti-Milo planning meeting.

Yiannopoulos’s speech never happened.

Before it started, thousands gathered on Sproul Plaza, in front of the ASUC Student Union and Pauley Ballroom, to protest his viewpoints. Rainbow lights in the colors of the pride flag were projected onto nearby Sproul Hall. Then a group of about 150 people dressed all in black marched onto campus with flags and sticks, launched M80s and other explosives at police, and used the metal barricades set up to separate ticket holders from protesters to smash the windows of the Amazon store in the student union.

As flames leaped into the night sky and a pall of smoke floated through the air, UC Berkeley police issued numerous dispersal orders and shot rubber and paint bullets into the crowd. But they kept direct engagement with the demonstrators to a minimum.

When Yiannopoulos’s talk was canceled, hundreds rejoiced and danced at the news. Many of the “black bloc” participants then marched into downtown Berkeley, where the group of self-identified anti-fascist, or antifa, protesters, vandalized banks and chain stores. The riots caused $100,000 in damage on campus and $600,000 in damage downtown.

The event immediately made national news as the images of the black-clad protesters shocked Americans. It prompted Yiannopoulos and conservatives to decry that the University of California did not protect free speech. Even the newly elected president weighed in. With a tweet.

The event was dramatic in itself, but it turned out to be the first of many violent clashes and demonstrations in Berkeley and around the United States in 2017 that pitted those on the right and far right against those on the left and far left, and laid bare the political fragmentation that characterized the country and accelerated under Donald Trump.

On the first anniversary of Feb. 1, 2017, Berkeleyside has crafted an oral history of that day. Our intent was to allow a diversity of viewpoints that got lost in the drama of that night to be heard. Mingling the different opinions of those who were at the event provides, we hope, a deeper understanding of what happened, why it happened, and what those involved were thinking at the time.

To put together this story, we interviewed many individuals, drew from news accounts, social media and legal documents, as well as from official UC Berkeley communications. The interviews have been lightly edited and condensed. (See sources at the bottom of the story.) All ages mentioned reflect the ages of the speakers on Feb. 1, 2017.

Before the night of Milo: The players

MILO YIANNOPOULOS, 33, was born in Kent, England and was the tech editor of Breitbart News. He had been banned from Twitter in July 2016 for his role in “inciting or engaging in the targeted abuse or harassment of others:”

“Welcome to the Dangerous Faggot Tour! My name is Milo Yiannopoulos, but tonight you can call me ‘Mrs. Claws.’… Most of you won’t be aware of this, but I’ve recently become a feminist icon! I’ve just come from the University of Wisconsin Milwaukee, where I made women on campus a little bit safer. I’ve rid their bathrooms of a dude in a dress! During my talk there, I drew attention to the case of [Yiannopoulos names a student; we will just call her Jane Doe] a so-called trans woman who used Title IX laws to force his way into women’s locker rooms. Legislation created to protect women is now used to put men in their restrooms. Now, Jane Doe is apparently upset, because I used his old name instead of his new fake one. And he’s quitting the university! Well, on behalf of the women at UWM, bye!… I was accused by Jane in news reports today of “violent” speech, as though such a thing could ever occur. I mean honestly. If you can’t take a joke, how are you going to cope with getting your dick chopped off? From a talk at Minnesota State University on Dec. 15, 2016.

TROY WORDEN, 20, was a third-year student at UC Berkeley, and a member of the Berkeley College Republicans, the student organization that invited Yiannopoulos to speak.

“I became involved with the Berkeley College Republicans in the second half of my sophomore year at UC Berkeley. I have lived in Pittsburg [CA] my entire life, except for the two years I spent living on campus. I’ve only grown up in a majority liberal environment. That goes for the elementary, middle, high-school experience, and also my university experience. I was interested in politics since the middle of high school. I was regularly engaging in debates with my teachers at high school, who, even though they were liberal and disagreed with me on many issues, never violently suppressed my viewpoints. My transitioning to greater involvement in the Berkeley College Republicans was an extension of my previous high-school experience, involvements in political discussions.

“I actually invited Milo. I sent the invitation back in August of 2016 before Milo Yiannopoulos was an extremely controversial figure…He hadn’t really started his extensive tour of U.S. universities. So he was just coming into being, so to speak. I invited him because I thought he was interesting. In other words, I thought Milo Yiannopoulos would be something sort of different than the run-of-the-mill conservative speaker.

“When I came back to the United States in the middle of January [from studying in England] it was such a volatile atmosphere. It was getting to the point where when we [the Berkeley College Republicans] tabled [in Sproul Plaza] we would be spat at, called names, people would try and shame us for inviting this person. It was rather unsafe. We made sure there were always two people tabling just to make sure we wouldn’t get attacked or have our private property destroyed.”

Continue reading on Berkeleyside.
