title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Archetype Brings Feel-Good, Plant-Forward Freshness to St. Helena!|http://www.sfgate.com|https://blog.sfgate.com/storystudio/2018/09/20/archetype-brings-feel-good-plant-forward-freshness-to-st-helena/||2018-09-20|||Stroll into Archetype and you’ll experience a very personal vision. The light and airy dining space reveals the mindful, sophisticated design of renowned Napa Valley architect Howard Backen, while the menu and management are the inspiration of his wife, Ann Ernish-Backen. The couple firmly believes in the power of good food and design to heal people, strengthen communities, and build nurturing relationships. “The dining table is often where the most powerful human connections take place,” says Ernish-Backen.

She speaks from experience. An avid yogi, health educator, and Lifestyle entrepreneur she recently battled cancer and used high-quality, plant-based food as her primary line of defense in overcoming what she had been told was an irreversible diagnosis. That challenge taught her an important lesson: that sustainably grown, nutrient-dense food can profoundly impact one’s body, family, community, and even the local environment.

People come here to shed the stress of their lives, and they should leave feeling better than when they arrived, not with a food hangover

Archetype is the embodiment of that message—the firm belief that food lies at the heart of universal connectedness and wellbeing. Ernish-Backen saw a void within Napa Valley’s landscape of fine-dining restaurants, many of which tend to serve rich, heavy fare. “St. Helena’s roots are as a health retreat,” she explains. “People come here to shed the stress of their lives, and they should leave feeling better than when they arrived, not with a food hangover.” Because the restaurant’s food is all thoughtfully chosen and sustainably produced, its meals are healthy for the planet, as well.

Classically trained in a “nose-to-tail” culinary approach, Chef Anthony Paone has created Archetype’s nutrient-dense menu, bringing hyper-local, artisanal sourcing that includes sustainably raised meats, wild seafood, and even medicinal flowers. Both Ernish-Backen and Paone believes the future of food is plant-based: While Archetype is far from a vegan restaurant, its dishes tend to be very plant-centric, showcasing veggies as the main stars while sustainable proteins play superb supporting roles.

The Norwegian Eggs – Archetype’s answer to Benedict – take their local flavor from fresh-off- the-dock wild salmon or trout (depending on the season); the cheeseburger with bacon jam is made with grass-fed, grass-finished beef that’s actually climate-beneficial. With honest, scratch- made ingredients and vibrant plates of richly colored produce, Paone proves that food that’s good for you on a cellular level can still offer an extravagant dining experience. While most vacationers find themselves heavy and hungover after a rich food- and wine-suffused visit to the Valley, guests leave Archetype feeling satisfied without remorse. Chef Paone has noticed that even his own health has improved since beginning his work with the restaurant.
