title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Bay Area Soccer: Jimmy Conrad joins SF Glens staff, Oakland teams clash in US Open Cup Qualifier|http://www.sfgate.com/quakes|https://blog.sfgate.com/soccer/2018/09/21/bay-area-soccer-jimmy-conrad-joins-sf-glens-staff-oakland-teams-clash-in-us-open-cup-qualifier/||2018-09-21|Douglas Zimmerman||Showing their ambitions to grow as a club, the San Francisco Glens announced the signing of former US Men’s National Team and MLS defender Jimmy Conard as the technical director and assistant coach for the USL-PDL side.

“I’ve always wanted to have a voice in the development of the game in this country, and after understanding what the Glens stand for and what they want to do, I decided that they’re creating a culture that I want to be a part of,” said Conrad.

A six-time MLS All-Star, Conrad had a long pro career playing for the San Jose Earthquakes, Sporting Kansas City, and Chivas USA. He also featured in the 2006 FIFA World Cup for the USA Men’s National Team in games against Italy and Ghana. In all, he earned 28 caps for the Stars and Stripes.

“The addition of Jimmy Conrad to our staff speaks volumes about our leadership role in the San Francisco soccer community and our club’s desire to provide the best experience possible for our players, from the PDL team on down,” explained SF Glens general manager J. Ramon Estevez.

“I believe that adding Jimmy reinforces our ambitions as a club,” added Mike McNeill, executive director of SF Glens Evolution, the Glens’ youth academy.

Conrad will be introduced at a press conference open to the public at the San Francisco United Irish Cultural Center at 2700 45th Avenue in the Sunset District on Thursday, September 27th at 7 pm.

Oakland Leopards and Oakland Stompers face off in highly anticipated US Open Cup Qualifier

The most fascinating Bay Area soccer clash since the end of the NPSL and PDL seasons will take place on Saturday night, Sept. 22nd in San Leandro. The amateur side Oakland Leopards face off against the UPSL’s Oakland Stompers in the first qualifying round of the 2019 US Open Cup.

The game has drawn interest from many Bay Area soccer fans because of the Leopards development agreement with Oakland Roots, which has pledged to bring a professional soccer team to Oakland next year.

The Roots management has stocked the Leopards with many of the players expected to play for their pro club in 2019.

The roster includes ex-SF Deltas standout defender/winger Bryan Burke, 2015 USL MVP and Golden Boot winner Matt Fondy, and former NPSL goal-scoring champion Simon Rawnsley. The club also announced the signing of former NPSL players Armando Castro, Kevin Gonzales, Bengy Ruiz, and Jesus Maldonado. Several promising local players have also been added to the club: Nikolai Littleton, Kyle Gavce, Javier Valdez-Raya, Francisco Mendoza, Josue Macias, Andres Plascencia, Juan Vasquez, Niall Irwin, John Quintanilla, and Robert Hines.

“We are ready for the fall and with the total number of players we have brought in, combined with the guys we are continuing to recruit, we have a very very talented team coming together for what we’re doing moving forward,” said Benno Nagel, Oakland Roots Club President and Director of Soccer.

The UPSL’s Oakland Stompers are also a new addition to the Bay Area soccer scene. Formerly known as the East Bay Ticos Fire, they have taken over the name (and legacy) of the former Oakland Stompers which played one season in the North American Soccer League at the Oakland Coliseum in 1978. The Oakland club is also the development team for the NPSL’s East Bay Stompers.

Many local soccer supporter groups are expected to attend the game, including members of the American Outlaws Oakland, SF City’s Northsiders, and Delta Force, the supporters group for the defunct SF Deltas.

The game will take place at Burrell Field, 2451 Teagarden Street. Game time is 7 pm, and admission is free.
