title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Bay Area Soccer Roundup: Season ends for El Farolito, SF City, SF Glens; SJ Earthquakes to play Man United|http://www.sfgate.com/quakes|https://blog.sfgate.com/soccer/2018/07/17/bay-area-soccer-roundup-season-ends-for-el-farolito-sf-city-sf-glens-sj-earthquakes-to-play-man-united/||2018-07-17|Douglas Zimmerman||El Farolito’s run through the NPSL playoffs came to an end on Saturday at Boxer Stadium when FCM Portland defeated them 2-0. Portland scored on either side of the half for the final score.

Watch highlights of the match below:



The loss ended Farolito’s impressive first season in the NPSL going undefeated in the Golden Gate Conference with a record of 9 wins and 5 ties. Their first place finish should also ensure them a date in the US Open Cup in 2019.

SF City and SF Glens end seasons

The last weekend of the USL PDL season featured the final two games each for SF City and the SF Glens.

In the second leg of the SF Derby, the Glens won 1-0 on a late penalty kick goal by Arda Bulut.

Watch highlights below:



On Saturday the Glens tied the Fresno FC U23 with the Glens’ Ranier Plantinos scoring a goal. SF City finished their season on the road Sunday scoring a 2-0 victory over the Santa Cruz Breakers SC with two goals by Gerardo Mendoza.

The two San Francisco teams finished level in the standings with 16 points from 14 games, but SF City was ranked higher based on league tiebreaker rules.

San Jose Earthquakes host Manchester United at Levi’s Stadium

The Quakes take a welcome break from their MLS schedule to face off against the English Premier League side Manchester United at Levi’s Stadium on Sunday, July 22nd at 2 pm. Tickets are still available for the match.

The two teams also faced off in the International Champions Cup in 2015 when the Quakes were defeated 3-1.

It has been a disappointing first half of the season for San Jose. They have won only one game since their season opener and currently are riding an 11-game winless streak.
