title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Best Places for Drinks Near Presidio Heights|http://sfinsider.sfgate.com|https://sfinsider.sfgate.com/best-places-for-drinks-near-presidio-heights/||2018-10-18|Sf Insider||Sitting between the Presidio, Pacific Heights and the Richmond District, Presidio Heights is one of the most exclusive neighborhoods in San Francisco. After spending the day romping around the beautiful Presidio Park, playing on Julius Kahn Playground, watching kids play in the Paul Good Field or taking in a round or two on the Presidio Golf Course, stop into one of these great places for a drink and bite to eat. Take note than menus and specific items offered may change.

The Snug

This newer location in Presidio Heights on the corner of Fillmore and Clay Street is as cozy as the name suggests and offers an impressive 20 taps and a cask engine to serve old-fashioned ale without the aid of Co2 or Nitrogen. Grab a seat along the long, wooden bar under the golden dome lights and order one of these cocktails:

Prickly Pear — Prickly pear, mezcal, amaro, nopales, habanero and lime

White Lily #2 — gin, rum, absinthe, orange liqueur and curry leaf

The Sour — Bourbon, egg white, Chinese plum and citrus

The Pig and Whistle Bar and Restaurant

Stop for a drink at an English pub in San Francisco’s Presidio Heights for a full spread of European lagers, several draft beers such as Carlsberg Lager from Denmark, a Newcastle Brown Ale from England, or a local, Drake’s Cask Best Bitter. The Pig and Whistle is unique to the West Coast and offers several great dishes to try along with one of these popular beers

Chimay, Belgium

Foster’s, Melbourne

Amstel Light, Amsterdam, Holland

The Plough and Stars

This Irish pub in the Presidio Heights district in the Bay City offers great food, satisfying drinks and live entertainment that includes traditional Irish music. The decor brings visions of Ireland with red walls adorned with Irish flags and other images from the Irish nation. When the live music isn’t available, put a few coins in the jukebox that also plays several Irish tunes while sipping on a local tap beer or imported lager.

Swank Cocktail Bar and Lounge

The Swank Cocktail Bar and Lounge is an upscale location inside the Laurel Inn for relaxing drinks and light snacks. Stop by this contemporary spot and slide into a stool along the shiny red bar, slink into one of the comfortable couches or cozy up in a chair by the fire and enjoy a glass of wine with a side order of bacon-wrapped dates stuffed with goat cheese or classic bowl of bar nuts. For something other than wine, sip on one of these classic cocktails:

Ward 8 — Rye, orange, lemon and pomegranate molasses

Spicy Paloma — Jalapeño infused tequila with lime, grapefruit and soda

Preakness—Bourbon, benedictine, bitters and sweet vermouth
