title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Beyond the Pools and Patios, Palm Springs is Also an Adventure Paradise|http://www.sfgate.com|https://blog.sfgate.com/storystudio/2018/08/30/beyond-the-pools-and-patios-palm-springs-is-also-an-adventure-paradise/||2018-08-30|||By StoryStudio

Now that the summer has ended and the morning air is cooling, it’s a great time to get out and explore the outdoors in Palm Springs, where you’ll find sunshine through the fall and winter months. Take a morning hike, hop on an ATV or a horse, hit the trails on a mountain bike, or choose from many other outdoor activities. Palm Springs overflows with opportunities to be active during your stay while still having that relaxing pool time.

Did you know there are waterfalls in Palm Springs? See a 40-foot beauty at the end of a moderate hike in Tahquitz Canyon, part of the pristine Agua Caliente Band of Cahuilla Indians Reservation. More hiking and exploration awaits you in the ancient Indian Canyons in South Palm Springs, which includes Andreas, Murray and Palm Canyon. These canyons are ancient, awesome and show off the largest native California Fan Palm grove in the world.

If you like mountain biking, there are a number of trails around the Coachella Valley from beginner to advanced. Big Wheel Tours offers some great guided experiences, including street and mountain bikes, hiking, and jeep tours. They will fit you for a bike and provide safety equipment along with water and snacks.

If you’d rather take it easy, many of the resorts in Palm Springs offer complimentary bikes for cruising the mid-century neighborhoods. Bike Palm Springs , located downtown, offers a variety of bikes and will happily outfit you with gear and information about area bike paths. Pedego Palm Springs also offers bike rentals, including electric bikes.

The location of Palm Springs next to the San Jacinto mountain range gave rise to outdoor adventurers who loved the beauty and wildness of the desert. Exploring the desert landscape on horseback, was, and continues to be, an unforgettable experience. Smoke Tree Stables offer a number of different horse trail experiences from one-hour trail rides to private tours.

Horsepower takes on an entirely different meaning when you’re buckled in to an ATV, Jeep, or Hummer for a boisterous ride through the desert. Desert Adventures (Red Jeep Tours) brings you right into the San Andreas Fault by day or night, the Indian Canyons, and winds through the Mecca Hills and Painted Canyons close to the Salton Sea. Adventure Hummer Tours takes guests on an adventurous four-wheel drive to the highest point in Joshua Tree National Park.

Want to drive yourself? Located at the entrance to Palm Springs coming from Los Angeles, ATV Experience puts you behind the wheel of an ATV to have fun in the sands of a private desert area – great for kids and the young at heart.

You can always sway above the fray on the Palm Springs Aerial Tramway, up the cliffs of the dramatic Chino Canyon. The 10-minute ride carries you over two miles up Mount San Jacinto, one of the tallest mountain ranges in Southern California. This is the world’s largest rotating tramcar that offers spectacular views of the entire valley. Two restaurants are available or pack a lunch and head out to explore some of the 52 miles of hiking trails available. The temperature is generally 20 – 30 degrees cooler than ion Palm Springs, so plan accordingly.

The Living Desert Zoo and Gardens keeps up the important work of preserving, conserving and interpreting the desert, featuring extraordinary plant and animal environments from North America and Africa. From pygmy hedgehogs to chuckwallas, cheetahs and giraffes, it’s a step into a world of exotic creatures. Seeing the Birds of the Australian Outback or Amazing Amphibians is a living lesson into survival. A tram is also available for those who can’t hoof it as easily.

Palm Springs is known for its Hollywood history, its love affair with mid-century architecture, and its hip, cool city center. Just as unique is the abundance of outdoor recreation that lies here in the entrance to the beautiful Southern California desert. Whether you pedal passionately, love a brisk walk, or prefer to let someone else fly you up, up and away, there’s an adrenaline rush waiting for you in this close getaway. Go to VisitPalmSprings.com for more travel ideas.
