title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Cal Performances program of string sextets yields a blustery onslaught|http://www.sfgate.com/entertainment|https://datebook.sfchronicle.com/music/cal-performances-program-of-string-sextets-yields-a-blustery-onslaught||2018-10-14|Joshua Kosman,Steven Winn||Take a standard string quartet, add two more string instruments, and on a good day you can get a dramatically new kind of chamber ensemble, one that’s capable of richly intricate counterpoint among independent musical voices, say, or a range of textural colors beyond what an ordinary lineup can provide.

On a bad day, you just get bluster and commotion.

Saturday, Oct. 13, which brought the Jerusalem Quartet and two celebrity ringers to Berkeley’s First Congregational Church, was not a good day. An evening of music for the string sextet, presented by Cal Performances, promised — at least to an optimistic observer — a full helping of delectable complexity and scale, taking the string lineup into comparatively unexplored realms.

The reality proved otherwise. Joining the Jerusalem Quartet — violinists Alexander Pavlovsky and Sergei Bresler, violist Ori Kam and cellist Kyril Zlotnikov — were violist Pinchas Zukerman and cellist Amanda Forsyth, and the performances that resulted were almost uniformly crude, blunt and overinsistent. It was almost as if the entire point of the extra musicians was so that the ensemble could play 50 percent louder.

The repertoire consisted of the best-known and most rewarding works for this unusual lineup: the extravagantly elegant sextet with which Strauss began his final opera, “Capriccio,” Schoenberg’s hyper-emotional “Verklärte Nacht” (“Transfigured Night”) and Tchaikovsky’s “Souvenir de Florence.”

As an encore, the group introduced a deft instrumental arrangement of Lensky’s aria from Tchaikovsky’s “Eugene Onegin.”

This is music that calls for a variety of interpretive responses from performers. Strauss’ suavely perfumed counterpoint, redolent of the 18th century chateau in which his opera is set, is one kind of undertaking; the fervid expressivity of Schoenberg’s work — one of the last gasps of a certain brand of very late Romanticism — is another, and Tchaikovsky’s genial four-movement work, written with both Mozart and the Italian landscape in the back of his mind, another one still.

Yet on Saturday, it all came out sounding brusquely alike. Instrumental textures were too blurry and too densely knotted for inner details to register. There were recurrent intonation problems, which tended to surface most glaringly in exposed passages where two or three instrumentalists were playing in octaves or unisons.

Most discouragingly, the dynamic level was confined almost exclusively to the range between forte and fortissimo, with an occasional dip into mezzo-forte for emphasis. Surely these are players who know how to play softly when it’s called for; why they chose otherwise must remain a mystery.

There were intermittent moments of pleasure, to be sure. There was the juncture midway through the Schoenberg, for instance, when Zlotnikov (who in his quiet way emerged as the evening’s hero) intoned an arching solo of wondrous eloquence and intensity, or the stately chords that introduced the slow movement of the Tchaikovsky. But these were brief oases amid a largely gloomy event.
