title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Celebrate the Bounty and Beauty of Sonoma Valley|http://www.sfgate.com|https://blog.sfgate.com/storystudio/2018/09/25/celebrate-the-bounty-and-beauty-of-sonoma-valley/||2018-09-25|||By StoryStudio

﻿

Can you smell it in the air? A potent bouquet of aromas has started sifting out of the wineries and into the air. The green hills have turned golden, and the summer sun has given way to fall breezes rustling through the vines. It’s harvest time in the Sonoma Valley . It’s a time that brings the community together. All those who work at wineries walk through the vines from dusk to dawn, checking to see if the grapes are ripe for picking. There’s an excitement in the air, as the farmers and winemakers take part in the harvest ritual that Sonoma has counted on for decades. Come celebrate the season with a weekend in one of the most beautiful places in California.

Where to Stay

There’s no shortage of adorable accommodations for your weekend away in Sonoma. But the Olea Hotel in Glen Ellen, a beautiful boutique abode, has a few unique amenities that visitors love. Crisp mornings are cut short with the addition of heated bathroom floors in your room. After warming your feet and having coffee in your room, make your way to the restaurant for a complimentary breakfast that changes daily. There’s both a two-course plated breakfast and a buffet, where you’ll find delectable offerings like a warm beignet with cardamom sugar and peach compote. If you tend to prefer savory over sweet in the morning, check out the poached egg on bacon, corn and pepper ragout. It’s the perfect base for a day of wine tasting!

At night, watch the sun set from the outdoor hot tub that’s nestled inside a quaint garden. The Olea Hotel also offers unlimited complimentary wine and refreshments in the lobby, where you can meet and mingle with other guests. It’s a wonderful way to make new friends or to hear about all there is to do in Sonoma Valley.

What to Do

Sipping wine is what most think of when a visit to Sonoma comes up, but there’s so much more to find here. Be sure to make time for each and every experience. Are you into the outdoors ? If so, what better way to see all of the bewitching beauty of Sonoma than by air? Take flight in a hot air balloon, brought to you courtesy of Sonoma Ballooning Adventures. You’ll take off from the Sonoma Skypark and then sail above the world-renowned landscape, where you can see the rolling vineyards, San Pablo Bay and the historic town of Sonoma.

Are you a history buff? You’ve come to the right place! Sonoma is the birthplace of California. Learn more by visiting the last of the twenty-one Missions: Mission San Francisco Solano de Sonoma. Founded in 1823, the Mission is now part of the California State Parks System. If you want to see more than just the mission, check out the Sonoma Walking Tour. It’s the quintessential tour of Sonoma and will take you to the mission and much, much more.

Foodies flock to Sonoma Valley to savor its flavors, and there’s no shortage of places to experience its unique tastes. There are gourmet restaurants that will wow you with every bite, bursting with flavor from the local organic fruits and vegetables. On top of that, locally grown olive oil and cheeses add to the unique seasonings that can be found at each and every restaurant in the Valley. Make sure you visit the farmers and culinary markets so you can take a taste of Sonoma home with you.

The Wineries

No visit to Sonoma is complete without visiting one (or several) of the many fabulous wineries . It doesn’t matter if you’re a serious wine drinker or a novice: there’s something for everyone here, with over 100 wineries to visit. During harvest, there’s a hustle and bustle around each and every vineyard that has to be seen to be believed. It’s a magical time in this mythical place. While many love to take a public tour that takes you out of town and into the valley, others prefer a more private affair. Beau Wine Tours offers an intimate experience where you will enjoy the highest quality wine with an equally high level of hospitality. You’ll also be able to see more of the gorgeous Pacific coastline and redwood forests. It’s a near-perfect way to experience both the wine and the landscape.

With so much to do, see, taste and find in Sonoma Valley , be sure to make time to spend a few days here. Relax and enjoy the vibrant hills, forests and vineyards. You’ll never want to leave, and don’t worry—we won’t make you. Though one doesn’t need a reason to escape to Sonoma Valley any time of year, check out these can’t-miss annual festivals.

…
