title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Creative Pastry Chefs Who Can Whip Up Perfection in San Francisco|http://sfinsider.sfgate.com|https://sfinsider.sfgate.com/creative-pastry-chefs-who-can-whip-up-perfection-in-san-francisco/||2018-10-18|Sf Insider||Whether seeking the buttery flaky goodness of a croissant to get a person going in the morning or cream filled pie with its light and fluffy texture to serve for a special dinner gathering, there is sure to be a pastry chef in San Francisco that is whipping up the perfect creation. The city is home to hundreds of bakeries and cafes that serve pastries in a variety of ways. Knowing which direction to begin the search is always helpful when on the hunt for delicious and satisfying pastry delights.

B. Patisserie

Belinda Leong is a pastry chef in San Francisco that has toured the world with a goal of finding the most amazing pastry recipes and techniques out there. A person can sample her talents and creativity when visiting B. Patisserie located on California and Divisadero in the city. One step into this San Francisco pastry haven and visions of Paris begin to emerge. Whether it be the ham and cheese croissant for breakfast when available or the seasonal quiche that is featured on the menu, the passion that Belinda has when crafting fine pastries for her guests is evident in each delicacy served.

Le Marais Bakery

At Le Marais Bakery guests will find a cozy atmosphere that is being catered by family-oriented staff. This San Francisco pastry shop understands that perfect delicacies can only be prepared when working with small batches at a time. Patrick Ascaso, a pastry chef from Arpajon, a small town located north of Paris, has brought his talents and creativity to the city to share with friends and neighbors that travel from both near and far. Using long ago traditional methods of natural leavening and long fermentation, Patrick spends hours preparing the delicious products his customers often request. When offered, diners enjoy the Merguez, a breakfast sandwich featuring Moroccan sausage paired with scrambled eggs and served with flaky croissants that are generous in both proportion and flavor. When available, the Brioche sticky bun is definitely worth savoring. Served with a homemade macchiato or iced chai tea, this pastry is bringing people back for more.

Mr. Holmes Bakehouse

When looking for San Francisco pastry shops that offer something a little different, Mr. Holmes’ Bakehouse is the place to head. The cruffin is offered in small amounts each day. This delicate pastry is a flavor filled croissant that is shaped like a muffin. Another creation of the pastry chef in San Francisco responsible for these French-style treats include the churro croissant. When available, these San Francisco pastry delights feature a rich dulce de leche cream filling or cinnamon and sugar coating that is a palate pleaser for anyone that tries them.

20th Century Café

With recipes and menu options that span cities such as Vienna, Budapest and Prague, the 20th Century Café is a San Francisco pastry shop that stands out from the crowd. This shop offers a variety of lunch options as well as tasty pastry delicacies. While the menu does change to accommodate the seasonal tastes, diners approve of lunch cuisine such as the Reuben sandwich served on a fresh baked roll. This is not just another ordinary deli sandwich. With the famous Pete’s Pastrami, homemade sauerkraut, comte and Russian dressing to top this menu option feeds the hunger that guests encounter during their busy day. The Russian honey cakes have a natural sweetness to them that is undisputable while the pierogi with damson plum preserve is always a hit when offered.

Having so many different talented San Francisco pastry chefs available throughout the city is sure to please any tastes a person is craving for delicate and fulfilling treats. Regardless of the shops that a person patronizes throughout the area, they are sure to receive a certain hospitality that is without compare. This combined with the rich and satisfying flavors that are offered up are enough to bring the crowds back day after day.
