title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
3-Day Getaway to Palm Springs: Clubs, Culture and Pool Time|http://www.sfgate.com|https://blog.sfgate.com/storystudio/2018/10/04/3-day-getaway-to-palm-springs-clubs-culture-and-pool-time/||2018-10-04|||By StoryStudio

Leave it to a former concierge to suggest a great 3-day getaway to Palm Springs. The current hotel manager has called the area home for eight years, having moved from Aspen for the sun, outdoor recreation and culture. Of course, one can concoct all sorts of fantastic long weekend itineraries in Palm Springs, blending the outdoors with late night dancing, exceptional dining with well-deserved “do nothing but chill by the pool” time. No need to wait, come out and encamp in Palm Springs for a few days.

Getting there is easy. It’s a quick non-stop flight from SFO to PSP.

The area’s cultural cache means plenty of exhibits at the Palm Springs Art Museum by the likes of Andy Warhol and Jean Michael Basquiat that one would rarely see outside a major metropolitan gallery. “Lines in the Sand” represents another popular theme at the museum, our relationship with the desert. Score free admission on Thursdays from 4-8pm. Keep the cultural moving forward at the VillageFest, the Palm Canyon Drive arcade bursting with 200 booths displaying art, crafts, food and more. This is also a free event every Thursday evening all year.

Continue your art dialog over dinner at Tropicale, home to a diverse menu and chill ambience that speaks well to the Palm Springs vibe – live jazz on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 5:30 pm accentuates the feel. The large outside patio is also very popular with the locals. “Or you can just step right next door to Copa, a great dance club with a very mixed crowd that is a ton of fun.”

Reserve the next morning for sunning by the pool, preferably at a swimsuit optional oasis like the intimate 18-room La Dolce Vita Resort and Spa, one of many clothing off-or-on resorts in the area. It may have more gay clothing optional resorts than anywhere in the world. While you’re there, pamper yourself with a luxurious spa treatment. For a larger pool scene, Ace Palm Springs and the Saguaro offer poolside DJ’s on the weekend. Or for a more sophisticated stay, you’ll love the pool on the 7th floor of The Rowan, a Kimpton resort located right downtown, Palm Springs first hotel to toss the pool (and bar) up on the roof.

Arenas Road is the Castro of Palm Springs. It houses plenty of alternative fashion houses as well with names like GayMart, Bear Wear and Rough Trade. Here you’ll find a number of gay bars including Hunters, Chill, Quads and the newest on the block, BlackBook. “They have a great happy hour that really heats up,” our advisor shares. “You can also find cocktails and snacks at many gay resort social hours” where guests mingle and make new friends.

After cocktails, reserve a table at one of the many chef-owned restaurants downtown. Copley’s is an intimate spot nestled at the South end of Uptown set in the cottage once used as a guesthouse by Carey Grant (One can only fantasize about who’s stayed here?). Copley’s offer a sophisticated kitchen with a casual air indoors and out on the terrace. Owner and chef Andrew Copley represents one of those great desert gems, a premier chef who could cook anywhere in the world but chooses to stay and share his marvelous menu. “The seared jumbo scallops are to die for,” says our local expert.

After dinner head to Hunters, arguably Palm Springs most iconic dance club with one of the largest dance floors in the valley. The go-go boys are in fine form amid every other element that makes this dance club “Have you ever gone to Hunters?” memorable. Fortunately, clubs stay open until 2 am so you can let it all hang out when hitting Hunter’s dance floor. Then head back to your resort, take and a late night dip, and settle in. You’ll need to rest.

The adventures continue next morning with a Red Jeep tour along the San Andreas Fault or into the famous Indian Canyons. These tours reveal both the desert ecosystem and some of Palm Spring’s Indian heritage of the Agua Caliente Band of Cahuilla Indians. After your Red Jeep tour, take a ride on the world’s largest rotating tram, the Palm Springs Aerial Tramway. Soar over 8,500 feet in 10 minutes up the San Jacinto mountain, one of the highest mountain ranges in Southern California that offers panoramic views of the entire valley. Bring you hiking boots to explore 52 miles of trails, or pack a lunch and just enjoy the afternoon. You’ll find the air about 20 degrees cooler, so dress accordingly, and get ready to experience a completely different ecosystem. You won’t believe a 10-minute ride will bring you from the desert to a pine forest.

It’s back to town for dinner at the new Rooster and the Pig, a Vietnamese American kitchen that is gathering rave reviews for its no fuss street food style menu, served on small plates. Try the Traditional Lemongrass Meatballs and Banana Leaf Steamed Pork, though every menu item suits the broad beer list perfectly. They don’t take reservations, so get there early. Another popular spot is the Purple Room. Michael Holms, both the entertainer and owner, will bring a smile to your face and heart at his Judy Show, a testament to characters hosted by none other than Judy Garland. The Purple Room was once the entertainment venue for the Rat Pack and continues to entertain audiences today.

The 3-day (and night) odyssey draws to a close next morning with the upscale Sunday champagne brunch at La Vallauris. Set on the terrace in old school Mediterranean ambience, the prix fixé brunch serves a classic French menu, sautéed veal scaloppini for example, but you can also claim eggs Benedict among other delectables. “The service is amazing and you won’t have to eat for another day or two,” states the local. Pinocchio’s is also a very popular spot on the weekend and offers, and your heard it right, a bottomless champagne glass for $4.95.

It’s too bad most air routes are so short from PSP because you’ll definitely be ready to nap on your flight home.
