title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Dream Globally, Eat Locally: Inside the Hawaii Food and Wine Festival|http://www.sfgate.com|https://blog.sfgate.com/storystudio/2018/09/20/dream-globally-eat-locally-inside-the-hawaii-food-and-wine-festival/||2018-09-20|||By StoryStudio

For as long as we can remember, Maui has been the quintessential destination for those of us seeking the ideal getaway, that perfect blend of beauty and sophistication. Imagine spending your days swimming with sea turtles and your nights sipping cocktails while watching the sun set the sky ablaze—that kind of vacation.

Kaanapali Beach, located on Maui’s northwest coast, exemplifies Hawaiian Island magic. With a stunning three-mile stretch of sand overlooking the bluest of waters and plenty of luxury resorts and hotels all within a lazy walk of one another, Kaanapali is the beach of relaxed royalty, where upscale and beachcomber meet.

don&#39;t miss out! Check out the schedule and get your tickets now!



So bring your camera and your sense of wonder, but don’t forget your taste buds! Besides its breathtaking beauty, Kaanapali Beach is also emerging as a world-renowned destination for those of us craving culinary adventure. Peppered with fine dining restaurants featuring the freshest of Hawaiian regional cuisine, Kaanapali is the unrivaled food capital of Polynesia. Its reputation as one of the most exciting food scenes west of San Francisco continues to grow. For the eighth year running, Kaanapali is hosting the heart and soul of the Hawaii Food and Wine Festival, taking place this year Oct. 19-21 at four locations along this historic beach.

The Hawaii Food and Wine Festival, which takes place each October over three weeks and three Islands, features internationally renowned chefs, culinary personalities, and exciting wine and spirit producers who arrive at this slice of paradise to celebrate a love of the land and reignite interest in sustainability. There are plenty of famous names you’ll recognize, some right from your own backyard! Read on to discover some of the chefs and events we’re most excited about at this year’s festivities.

Hometown Hero Makes Good (Food)

Hawaii-born chef Jordan Keao has been wowing guests at his San Francisco restaurant ‘āina since it began as a pop-up concept in 2014. Combining classic Hawaiian and Asian concepts with locally sourced ingredients, Chef Keao has a talent for creating dishes that truly reflect their environment. The whole concept of ‘āina mirrors that of the Hawaii Food and Wine Festival itself; they are love letters to the land, inspirational moments meant to honor that which sustains us. “There’s a way that we’re trying to do things (at ‘āina) that’s in line with the ethos of San Francisco but is so Hawaiian at heart,” Chef Keao says. “Sustainability, eating from the earth, respecting the ‘āina. These are things that are fundamentally Hawaiian.” Chef Keao was kind enough to provide us with a sneak peek of the cuisine he’ll be bringing to the festival: kiawe wood–smoked ribs, slow cooked for 12 hours and prepared with a char sui glaze, a sweet and salty hoisin sauce made from beet and pomegranate molasses, all paired with a salted duck egg arare. Count us in!

Nosh With the Chefs

Chef Keao is one of thirteen distinguished chefs participating in Spiked!, an event that challenges chefs to push their seasoning envelopes. Spiked!, hosted this year at the Sheraton Maui Resort and Spa, offers foodies like us the opportunity to consume delectable bites right alongside our culinary icons. As you move from station to station, sipping specifically paired wines and cocktails, you’ll have the chance to watch the chefs work and interact in an intimate setting. Witness tantalizing flavor profiles ranging from the Far East to Old Europe, from fresh Pacific seafood to wild mountain herbs. You’ll be reminded of what Spiked! truly is: an exhibition of artists.



East Meets West

Hawaii’s location is inseparable from its rich culinary history. Chinese and Japanese cuisine has long made an impact here. Chef Brandon Jew, who owns Mister Jiu’s in San Francisco’s Chinatown, has taken this ideal to heart. Chef Jew (the immigration officer’s spelling of Jiu upon his grandparents’ arrival in the U.S.) grew up in Chinatown, but cooked all over the globe, from Bologna to Shanghai, before finally settling back in his native city to bring us the Michelin star–rated restaurant. Chef Jew is another chef sure to bring a global perspective to the festival.

Street Fair in the Heart of Kaanapali’s Whaler Village

While the nightlife elements will be tough to resist, make sure you keep well rested and hydrated so you and your family can attend Keiki in the Kitchen Kaanapali. This event, which has featured in the Festival on other islands, is packed with talent and activities. Not only will chefs like Keao and Jew be attending, Keiki in the Kitchen Kaanapali is hosted by YouTube baking star Rosanna Pansino. Making its Maui debut, this popular event offers the chance to take photos with your favorite chefs as well as gives kids the opportunity to decorate cupcakes, screen-print their own T-shirts, and build their own delicious and nutritious snack packs, all in the classic Kaanapali setting of Whaler’s Village.

A Night at the Symphony of Flavors

What better way to top your festival experience than a sophisticated six-course flavor extravaganza, hosted by six culinary masters known for orchestrating indulgence? At Symphony of Flavors, you’ll dine at the newly minted Kitchen Stadium, created specifically for this event by Hyatt Regency Resort and Spa. As the sun sets, sip expertly paired wines and enjoy ingeniously constructed dishes with that special someone. It will be a time for celebration and reflection on a weekend you’ll never forget.
