title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Eight Ways to Transform Special Education|http://www.sfgate.com|https://blog.sfgate.com/storystudio/2018/08/28/eight-ways-to-transform-special-education/||2018-08-28|||By StoryStudio

As the school year starts up, many parents of students with disabilities know that they will face an uphill climb to get their children the support they need in school. In the United States, only 8 percent of students with disabilities are reading and doing math at grade level by the time they reach eighth grade. Yet, experts estimate that the large majority of students with disabilities (80 percent) can perform at grade level with the right support.

What does great special education look like? In our just-released publication, An Advocate’s Guide to Transforming Special Education , we share the eight areas of support that make a difference for students with disabilities. Each includes the practices that educators and researchers have found improve outcomes for these students at the district, school, and classroom level.

For parents who are ready to champion their children’s education, below are the eight things you’ll want to see your school and district doing for students with disabilities.

1. Believe in Them

Too often, adults do not believe that students with disabilities can perform at grade level. Expectations matter. For students with disabilities to be successful, leaders at all levels of the education system and school team must believe in their full potential and put that belief in action. District and charter leaders must ensure that the success of students with disabilities is a shared priority for everyone.

2. Include Them

Students with disabilities should be included in general education classrooms with their peers as much as possible. This requires strong collaboration between general education and special education teachers and calls on schools to intentionally design their staffing, budget, physical layout, and schedules to meet the needs of students with disabilities. By practicing inclusion, schools can ensure that students with disabilities have access to the same level of rigorous content and the same high-quality teachers, and feel part of a safe, welcoming, inclusive school culture.

3. Find Them

The school team should have a quick, accurate, and transparent process for identifying students who will benefit from an individualized education plan (IEP). Students should get support as soon as they fall behind and that support should meet their needs. The school must communicate with students’ families every step of the way.

Additionally, schools should review results from their identification process regularly to make sure that students with disabilities are accurately identified and that students of color, low-income students, and English-language learners are not misidentified as having a disability or not having a disability.

4. Catch Them Before They Fall

The school team must track every student’s behavioral, social-emotional, and academic progress to ensure they don’t fall behind. Both general and special education teachers at the school should have strong training in special education interventions, particularly for the most common disabilities among their students. Teachers should adjust a student’s support based on the student’s individual needs and progress.

5. Meet Them Where They Are and Challenge Them

All students have different strengths and learning needs. Schools should provide individualized instruction so that every student can meet state standards. Teachers should build upon each student’s unique strengths. When teachers design their lessons for the widest range of learners possible, the lessons become more effective for everyone. For example, when teachers present content in multiple ways, all students benefit.

6. Know Them

The school team and families should work together to understand the needs of every student from the student’s first day, and they should jointly track the student’s progress over time. Educators should regularly use data to measure the academic progress and social-emotional development of all students. They should consistently track whether interventions are working.

7. Involve Them and Their Families

The school team should engage students in decisions about their own learning and engage parents as an equal and important partner in a child’s education. Students should have a voice in developing and monitoring their own IEP. Parents should participate in monitoring their child’s progress and adjusting the plan for support.

8. Stick with Them

Given the unique learning needs of students with disabilities, they benefit even more than other students from consistency over time. When school leaders and teachers stay at their school for many years, they develop trusting and supportive relationships with students, families, and one another. School administrators must do all they can to invest in teachers to make them want to stay. This includes supporting staff with coaching, professional development, and additional planning time so they can help students succeed.

To learn more about transforming the special education landscape and what to look for, check out An Advocate’s Guide to Transforming Special Education by Innovate Public Schools. And to get involved in our campaign in San Francisco, contact us at info@innovateschools.org .

Innovate Public Schools is a California-based nonprofit working with parents, educators, and community leaders to make sure every child has an excellent public school, especially those students who have been left behind, including low-income students, students of color, and students with disabilities.
