title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Epic kid Halloween costumes: Little RBG, Hall and Oates, and more|http://www.sfgate.com|https://datebook.sfchronicle.com/entertainment/rbg-hall-and-oates-plus-more-epic-homemade-halloween-costumes?ipid=sfgatehp||2018-10-16|Peter Hartlaub,Ben Fong-Torres,Emma Heath,Jesse Hamlin,Ryan Kost,Joshua Kosman||The Chronicle’s homemade Halloween costume contest began more than a decade ago with the assumption that the costumes would be horrible, and the resulting images would be a “Pinterest fails” kind of thing.

We’d laugh at ourselves, then move on.

I remember the tone changed when an email arrived with a girl dressed in a Converse Chuck Taylor sneaker. And from there, it only got more cool and creative and epic.

This year, the contest returns as the Total SF Halloween Costume Contest. The Chronicle will be giving cash prizes this year, including $250 to the child with the best S.F.-themed costume. Send your entries to phartlaub@sfchronicle.com with the subject line “Total SF Halloween.”

The contest will culminate with a costume party at 10 a.m. Saturday, Oct. 27 at The Chronicle, 901 Mission St. Come show us your costume, get your photo taken in our studio by a professional photographer and see The Chronicle newsroom. Sign up at sfchronicle.com/costume. (More rules and details below.)

Below are my 10 favorite costumes in contest history:

SPACE SHUTTLE ENDEAVOR (and jet …)

Longtime reader Rhean submitted this topical costume in 2012, after the Space Shuttle Endeavor went on a tour through the Bay Area.

The costumes included Rhean’s 4-year-old daughter as the jet that gave the Space Shuttle Endeavor (her 1-year-old brother) a victory tour ride across the state. There are great details here, but the girl’s smile is the best.

LITTLE RED CORVETTE PRINCE

Dearly beloved … we are gathered here today to make a homemade costume …

Sarah P. writes: “Jonah, the Baby Formerly Known As Prince, loves the Little Red Corvette at the Presidio Heights Playground.”

Baby you’re much too crafty!



LITTLE RBG

A cherished entrant from our 2015 costume contest.

Mother Andrea wrote in: “My 2.5 year old daughter, who has a rare chromosomal condition called Pitt Hopkins Syndrome, channeling RBG beautifully …”

Topical, sweet and well-executed. I hope Ruth Bader Ginsburg sees this, and appreciates the good company she’s in.

PREGNANCY BUMP WARRIORS

Why did we suffer all those years as Warriors fans? For three NBA championships, and photos like this one.

We salute the team spirit of Brenna Maloney Rudd and family, for their great use of the pregnancy belly bump, and the before/after shots.

She writes: “Thought you might like this — this is our ode to the warriors Halloween costume this year (and last year!). This is me, my husband, and our daughter, Georgina.”

BOB ROSS AND PAINTING

Longtime contest supporter Alissa McLean from Berkeley may have the two coolest kids ever, for totally selling this 2016 Bob Ross costume. Give them all the candy.

She writes: “This is painter/TV personality Bob Ross (Emily, 4) and one of his paintings (Will, 13). Will decided that the extra candy he’ll get from the 1 in 10 people who are familiar with ‘The Joy of Painting’ will be well worth the quizzical nods from everybody else. Alas, despite faithful attempts to mimic his brushstrokes and internalize his assurance that we have ‘total and complete power over our canvas,’ none of us is actually capable of painting like Bob Ross. So please suspend your disbelief and imagine that the trees indeed look like ‘a lot of happy little trees!&#39;”

ROCCO THE TACO

Like previous overall winners, there’s incredible execution in this costume submitted by Mike Rizzi and Terri Manning in 2014, and a strong Bay Area-ness.

The costume also has strong ties to the child’s interest; 9-year-old Rocco is a taco fiend. The costume is a technical marvel — red onions FTW — looking even more grand in front of the El Tonayense taco truck. (Excellent taste!)

Mike and Rocco visited us at The Chronicle to cash in on their winner’s offer for a newsroom tour. Rocco brought taco-themed haikus.

SAY ANYTHING BOOM BOX BABY

One of our winners from 2012 shares my love for John Cusack movies and bold acts of love.

Nikki S. had a great response when asked why she dressed her then-1-year-old son Teddy as a boom box, referencing a scene from “Say Anything” featuring Peter Gabriel’s “In Your Eyes” — ”Because why not?”

He’ll appreciate it when he’s older.

SUSHI BABY

You know that moment when you first watched “The Godfather, Part II,” and it was so good that it pretty much ruined every mafia-related movie and TV show that followed?

This is like that, but with a baby sushi costume, sent by Amy Jeschke. We receive three or four small-child-in-sushi photos every year, but this one is memorable for the details. Note the perfect ratio of salmon-to-cucumber. Note the ginger/wasabi headband. Note how the costume actually helps the baby to sit up.

BOTH HALL AND OATES

Stacey Andres is a contest regular, with Hunter S. Thompson and Rhonda Rousey costumes the year before this 2016 winner — which was retweeted by John Oates!

Stacey wrote:”Four-year-old Elsa is a massive Hall & Oates fan — it was her very first concert last summer, and she cuts a rug to their playlist daily. She wanted to dress as Hall & Oates for Halloween, but couldn’t pick just one. So why be Hall OR Oates, when you can be Hall AND Oates? This split costume honors ‘The Very Best of Daryl Hall & John Oates’ album cover.”

MAD MAX FURY ROAD FAMILY

Our winners of the 2015 contest.

Christy Canida said the family costuming started when an older sister decided to dress as Furiosa from “Mad Max Fury Road.” Then Procyon, age 3, joined the theme.

The costumes are amazing, the kids look like they’re having a blast and “Mad Max: Fury Road” is a cinematic classic.

Total SF Halloween Costume Contest rules

Enter your homemade costume by sending an email to phartlaub@sfchronicle.com and hknight@sfchronicle.com. Please include “Total SF Costumes” in the subject line.

Deadline for entry is Oct. 26. Include photos and a short story about the costume(s).

The Chronicle’s homemade costume contest will culminate with a meet-up at 10 a.m. Oct. 27, at The Chronicle, 901 Mission St., S.F. Register here.

Photos of entrants will be taken in The Chronicle, and distributed to entrants after the event.

The first 25 registered visitors to arrive at The Chronicle in homemade costumes get free passes to the Children’s Creativity Museum, 221 Fourth St.

Prizes will be given out to participants and a $250 grand prize will be awarded to the top Total SF costume winner.

This is a children’s costume contest, although themed family costumes with children and parents will be considered.

(All kids in costume are welcome at The Chronicle, but only homemade costumes are eligible for the contest.)
