title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
FDA approves first drug derived from marijuana|http://www.sfgate.com/cannabis|https://blog.sfgate.com/smellthetruth/2018/06/26/fda-approves-first-drug-derived-from-marijuana/?search=cannabis||2018-06-26|Oscar Pascual||

Patients suffering from rare forms of pediatric epilepsy will be able to find relief in the first FDA-approved drug made from cannabis.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved an epilepsy treatment created by GW Pharmaceuticals on Monday, earning the distinction as the first approved drug derived from from marijuana compounds, reports Reuters.

Known as Epidiolex, the drug has undergone several successful trials proving to be effective against severe forms of epilepsy such as Dravet Syndrome (DS) and Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome (LGS), both of which can develop in children as early as two years old.

“This approval serves as a reminder that advancing sound development programs that properly evaluate active ingredients contained in marijuana can lead to important medical therapies,” FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb said in a statement.

Epidiolex contains concentrated amounts of cannabidiol (CBD) — a medical compound extracted from cannabis plants. The drug also contains contains less than 0.1 percent of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the psychoactive component that gives users the “stoned” effect.

There is no set launch date to release the medicine, as the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) must now evaluate the drug and consider reclassifying CBD as a drug containing medical value. GW CEO Justin Gover said they expect that the DEA will reschedule CBD within 90 days.

“Today’s approval of Epidiolex is a historic milestone, offering patients and their families the first and only FDA-approved CBD medicine to treat two severe, childhood-onset epilepsies,” said Gover. “These patients deserve and will soon have access to a cannabinoid medicine that has been thoroughly studied in clinical trials, manufactured to assure quality and consistency, and available by prescription under a physician’s care.”

Smell The Truth is one of the internet’s most popular destinations for cannabis-related news and culture. This blog is not written or edited by SFGate or the San Francisco Chronicle. The authors are solely responsible for the content.
