title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Find Purity and Perfection with AQUA Carpatica|http://www.sfgate.com|https://blog.sfgate.com/storystudio/2018/09/04/find-purity-and-perfection-with-aqua-carpatica/||2018-09-04|||By StoryStudio

People are thirsty for a safe, natural bottled water with a crisp, clean taste. But misleading marketing campaigns have caused confusion among consumers when it comes to what’s important when selecting a water brand. Brands aren’t safe or transparent, and they don’t disclose what’s really in their water, like chemical impurities such as nitrates. What’s more, while some brands purify the water to remove harmful contaminants, beneficial components like electrolytes are also stripped during the process. Salt powders are often added back in to help achieve a pleasant taste. So, why is this bad?

Nitrates are contaminants that can come from several sources, including fertilizer runoff or even wastewater treatment plants. Scientists at the National Cancer Institute have found a greater incidence of bladder cancer in people who drank water with just over 50 percent of the federal nitrate limit. And while sodium is okay in small doses, as Americans we consume far too much on a daily basis. Many bottled water companies across the U.S. add sodium and other minerals to their water to enhance the taste, unnecessary additives that try to artificially “improve” a liquid that should be pure.

Even bottled water that claims to be “pure” can be misleading. There’s no actual standard for this term, which can encompass everything from spring water, to purified water, and even dead water – a filtered water that uses reverse osmosis to remove impurities as well as beneficial nutrients. While many European countries recommend a maximum of 2.27mg/L of nitrates for infants no such legislation currently protects us in the U.S. That means that many Americans, including expectant mothers, athletes, and the infirmed, are unknowingly consuming harmful nitrates as we seek to hydrate ourselves with bottled water.

Only the nitrate-free sparkling natural mineral water of the Carpathian Mountains is guaranteed to be naturally free of contaminants, thanks to a naturally occurring purification process.

In a world that seems to grow more crowded and polluted every day, the Carpathian Mountains stand out, stunningly secluded and perfectly pristine. Home to the last truly wild forest environment in Europe, these majestic mountains run along Poland’s southern border and sweep over central Europe, arching from the Czech Republic in the west to Romania in the east. Yet even though these dazzling ridges are Europe’s second-biggest mountain range after the Alps, they’re practically undisturbed.

There is no agricultural or industrial activity in the area, so there’s little to no human contamination. If you found yourself hiking in the Carpathians one day, you could stop to take a drink from one of the natural springs running down its peaks and never worry that a single delicious drop is contaminated. We can’t say that about most of the bottled water found in the U.S.

The crown jewel of the Carpathian Mountains is the Bucovina region, a lush land of untamed vistas and valleys covered in wildflowers. Among all of this beauty, you’ll find ice-cold brooks babbling through a forest of fir, pine and spruce trees. The water found here is unique in the world. Millions of years of volcanic activity have filtered out impurities, leaving behind naturally carbonated springs that are nitrate- and sodium-free.

In the Carpathian Mountains 60,000 square miles of fierce forest protect the original purity of massive rainfall in the region. Safe from the influence of man, this source is home to the purest water on earth. The rainwater runs underground for nearly 40 years, through layers of Neogene volcanic rock and dolomite. This filters out impurities and enriches the water with natural bicarbonates of calcium, magnesium, and potassium. Because of these underground volcanoes, naturally occurring carbon dioxide dissolves through walls into the aquifer, and the water becomes naturally sparkling! It’s a scientific marvel.

You’ll find the pure and delicious taste of the Carpathian Mountain springs in every bottle of AQUA Carpatica, a popular European brand of water. This special water has been captured and transported across the globe, so that health-minded individuals who want only the best for their bodies can enjoy it. AQUA Carpatica sources the water using state-of-the-art, environmentally friendly technology. They also work directly with local authorities in the Carpathian Mountain region to enforce an environmental protection plan. This ensures the springs and the surrounding lands cannot be influenced by industrial activity. We can drink AQUA Carpatica without fear of harmful additives and nitrates that can pollute our bodies.

AQUA Carpatica avoids issues having to do with nitrates and sodium. It’s a unique, perfect water created by nature. Founded by an indie company, AQUA focuses on bottling premium water with integrity. AQUA respects European legislation that has a strict criteria regarding the composition of natural spring water including label transparency, and selected its source springs based on stringent criteria to ensure the water is naturally pure— without nitrates or harmful contaminants.

Knowledge is power when it comes to food and water. AQUA Carpatica has created an app that consumers can use to compare different brands and identify levels of nitrates, sodium, calcium, magnesium, pH, bicarbonates and even dry residue. With the AQUA Scanner App, you know exactly what’s in your water—and that’s why AQUA Carpatica is quickly becoming one of the most trusted water brands in California and across the country.

Learn more about AQUA Carpatica still and sparkling water at aquacarpatica.com.
