title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Finding Hookah Bars in San Francisco|http://sfinsider.sfgate.com|https://sfinsider.sfgate.com/finding-hookah-bars-in-san-francisco/||2018-10-18|Sf Insider||There’s a diverse community in the Bay Area, and there are plenty of new things to try as a result. From hookah bars in San Francisco to Turkish coffee and fantastically unique cuisine, here are some of the most interesting.

Hookah Bars

Hookah bars in San Francisco have been a dying breed since the introduction of the smoking ban. Very few remain, so it might be necessary to venture beyond the city to find options. The Nile Cafe & Hookah Lounge on Jones Street in San Francisco is a good option, giving you the choice to pair the evocative hookah experience with a traditional sweet tea that’s reportedly made according to a secret, age-old recipe.

Turkish Coffee

The wonderful thing about Turkish coffee is that, despite being a rich and luxurious drink on its own, it needs no opulent surroundings to match. In fact, it brings its own opulence to pretty much any surroundings. In this way, the relatively lo-fi, almost fast food-style A La Turca on Geary Street in the Tenderloin becomes a refined oasis for delicate tea glasses and rich, potent Turkish coffee, even while the regular clientele yell excitedly at the TV when their team is playing. This café is one of the more authentic in the city, serving baba ghanoush, stuffed grape leaves and other Turkish delights.

Turkish Cuisine

There are plenty of excellent Turkish restaurants in San Francisco where visitors can find this flavorful cuisine. Bursa Kebab is especially popular among those familiar with authentic Turkish food, including plenty of grilled meats on kebabs and spicy salads and dips. Desserts, meanwhile, typically include the famous baklava along with lesser-known items like renavi (semolina cake with syrup) and kadayif (pastry with syrup and pistachios).

Whether you’re in the mood for hookah smoking, kebab or even belly dancing, there are many places in San Francisco and in the general Bay Area that can suit your needs. However, keep in mind that many dedicated hookah bars are outside of the limits because of the citywide smoking ban. Its also a wise idea to call ahead and see when your desired bar or restaurant is open, as menu items and hours of operation can change.
