title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Finding the Best Burgers for a Balboa Park Lunch Extravaganza|http://sfinsider.sfgate.com|https://sfinsider.sfgate.com/finding-the-best-burgers-for-a-balboa-park-lunch-extravaganza/||2018-03-02|Sf Insider||Balboa Park is the name of a neighborhood and a public park located in San Francisco, between Mission Street and I-280 north of Geneva Avenue. The park features a children’s playground, baseball diamonds, tennis courts and a public swimming pool. The Balboa Park neighborhood, sometimes also known as Cayuga, Mission Terrace or Ingleside, features a number of restaurants to tempt the taste buds, including burgers that range from comfort American classic to the sublime, gourmet and unexpected.

Gourmet Gastropub

The Myriad Gastropub features global and international cuisine, and as the name implies, it serves an array of high-end food and drinks. Included on the lunch menu among the chicken liver mousse and pasta offerings is the gourmet burger served on a brioche bun. Of course, a burger’s success often rests on its sides and sauces and here is no exception. The secret sauce, called mgp sauce presumably standing for Myriad Gastropub, is included with the burger as well as a few other condiments and sides. Everything served here is thoughtfully sourced, free-ranging and grass-fed.

Cafe Conundrums

The name of AJ’s BBQ and Cafe may conjure images of a typical diner, but it is not exactly the typical cafe menu that one would expect. Serving Filipino breakfasts and dishes like curry, adobo and menudo, one might think a good burger is not to be had here. That would not be the case, since the cafe serves hamburgers, cheeseburgers and bacon burgers with all the fixings. Add a coke for the typical diner experience or opt for a Thai iced tea or coconut juice. I know right, who serves lumpia and doughnuts. This place does. Another surprising and extraordinary burger spot is Umami Burger, where burgers take on an Asian flair, truffle glaze and other flavor pairings that make one question ketchup and mustard.

Beep’s: Need I Say More

Beep’s Burgers, which is named after a spaceship sound, has been in business since 1962. The name and era might hint potential diners to the menu and ambiance. This throwback diner offers a modern take on the burger, serving Angus beef that is freshly ground and served at a precise perfect medium. This burger doesn’t need all the condiments and sides, but they have them available just in case. The menu offers not just one type of French fry, but several, from classic to curly. A burger place takes taste to the next level when a burger add-on option is an over easy egg, and Beep’s offers this, along with a tempting dessert, milkshake and float menu.
