title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Get a Taste of Thailand at Hawker Fare in San Francisco|http://sfinsider.sfgate.com|https://sfinsider.sfgate.com/get-a-taste-of-thailand-at-hawker-fare-in-san-francisco/||2018-10-18|Sf Insider||Hawker Fare San Francisco has street-vendor style Thai food. Its dishes are intended to be shared and eaten with the hands. Hawker Fare is considered a Lao Isaan eatery, with a variety of colorful, spicy and flavorful foods inspired by Thailand. For diners, this means an extensive menu with rice, vegetables, seafood and meat. In addition to the dinner menu, Hawker Fare has a selection of exotic Thai desserts, and beer, wine and Thai-inspired cocktails are available for libations. Hawker Fare caters to small groups of diners, and it also makes party trays for special occasions. Menus are always subject to change.

Shared Plates to Enjoy with Friends

The Hawker Fare shared plates are designed for people to share with friends and family as they kick off a fun evening. Light but satisfying shared plates include beer nuts, which have a Thai twist with lime, chilies, salt and garlic, and the blistered green beans, which are made with Prik Khing curry paste. They can be served with or without bacon. Brussels sprouts prepared in a special sauce made with chilies, garlic and fermented bean paste represent the traditional Thai style of preparing vegetables. A Thai papaya salad and a minced pork salad are also shared plate options, as are curries, rice dishes, vermicelli noodles and braised pork belly. Hawker Fare also serves grilled shared plates like Isaan barbecue chicken and Isaan herbed pork sausage. The satay beef short ribs, made with the beef on the bone, make Hawker Fare one of the best Thai establishments among San Francisco restaurants.

Side Dishes and Sweet Treats

The dining options at Hawker Fare also include an assortment of rice-based side dishes and delectable desserts. Sticky rice, chicken fat rice and grilled sticky rice are popular options for side dishes, as are the vermicelli noodles. Desserts include light and refreshing options like the Tapioca Pearl Pudding, which is made with seasonal fresh fruits; sweetened sticky rice; and coconut ice cream, which is garnished with caramel-roasted banana and lotus blossom sesame cookies.

Party Trays for Large Groups

For larger groups, the party trays are popular options. Diners can select themed trays, such as salad trays, soup trays and trays with grilled specialties. The salad try contains a combination of rice-based salads, Thai salad and laab moo, which is a Thai salad garnished with Thai chilies, green onions, mint, cilantro and fish sauce. Penang Curry Tofu is a special soup tray, and the grilled and satay trays are platters of chicken, beef and vegetable Thai dishes.

Refreshing Drinks

The assortment of drinks at Hawker Fare is no less intriguing than the food menu. The drinks selection includes a rotating array of red and white wines, bottled beer imported from Thailand and Singapore, and a rotating draft selection. The list of innovative cocktails at Hawker Fare includes the Scorpion Bowl, which mixes rum, brandy, lemon juice, orange juice and orgeat (an almond syrup accented with flower water), and the Painkiller, which has Venezuelan aged rum, lime juice, orange juice, cinnamon syrup and spiced bitters.
