title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Heras-Casado leads the SF Symphony on a fantasy travelogue through Spain|http://www.sfgate.com/music|https://datebook.sfchronicle.com/music/heras-casado-leads-the-sf-symphony-on-a-fantasy-travelogue-through-spain||2018-10-19|Joshua Kosman||For French composers of a certain era and frame of mind, the Pyrenees represented a kind of fairy-tale boundary. On their side of the border, to the north, lay the humdrum world of everyday life; but to the south lay the magical realm of Spain, a world of enchanted moonlit gardens, sinuous dances and plenty of sexytime.

The fact that many of the musical evocations of Spain by Debussy, Ravel and their compatriots boast a certain vein of tongue-in-cheek self-awareness only adds to their charm. The San Francisco Symphony’s concert program this week under guest conductor Pablo Heras-Casado, presented in Davies Symphony Hall on Thursday, Oct. 18, brought out the evocative delights as well as the faint whiff of self-parody in these pieces.

Ravel’s brief orchestral sketch “Alborada del gracioso,” with its strumming guitars and clacking castanets, made an entertaining opener, setting up the more serious but still puckish strains of Debussy’s three-part tone poem “Ibéria” after intermission. And although Ravel’s “Boléro,” which closed the evening in a long sustained crescendo, may not have Spain literally on its mind, the music’s fluent, sinuous melody and crisp march rhythms are very much of a piece with other Iberian-Arabic mashups.

None of this is to suggest that either the orchestra or Heras-Casado himself were in top form on Thursday. Over and above the gentle scrim of fantasy through which images of Spain emerged, there was also general air of vagueness in the musical execution – soggy instrumental textures, prominently flubbed notes, rhythms configured more approximately than one would wish.

In the “Alborada,” Heras-Casado elicited wonderfully filmy instrumental colors from the orchestra, especially in the piece’s bemused central section. But he also allowed that wispiness to bleed into the music’s rhythmic structure, softening the foundations like the gravy in a pot pie.

And although “Boléro” was anchored throughout by the Olympian work of principal percussionist Jacob Nissly, who sustained a steady rat-a-tat on the snare drum while slowly ratcheting up the volume, there was not always a sense that the disparate sections of this repetitive masterpiece were fully integrated.

One soloist after another would take a moment in the spotlight, then toss the baton (figuratively) to a colleague who would grab at it with a vaguely startled air. Not until the final few minutes of the performance did the piece gather its full helping of momentum.

The one exception to the evening’s Spanish theme was the inclusion of Bartók’s Piano Concerto No. 3 – unless you consider that the soloist, Javier Perianes is, like Heras-Casado, Spanish (and made his 2015 Symphony debut in Falla’s “Nights in the Gardens of Spain”).

For anyone familiar with Bartók’s first two piano concertos, the Third – his final work, left just a few measures short of completion at his death in 1945 – always comes as a shock. In place of percussive keyboard explosions and angular dissonances, the music is lovely and ingratiating, with a bright brittle palette in the opening movement and a stately, spiritual chorale serving as the central slow movement.

Perianes caught the music’s blend of gentility and directness perfectly, in a reading of delicacy and strength. His encore, even more exquisite, was a gorgeously shaded account of Chopin’s Mazurka in A Minor, Op. 17, No. 4.

San Francisco Symphony: 8 p.m. Friday-Saturday, Oct. 19-20. $35-$185. Davies Symphony Hall, 201 Van Ness Ave., S.F. 415-864-6000. www.sfsymphony.org.
