title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
High Times postpones Sacramento Cannabis Cup|http://blog.sfgate.com|https://blog.sfgate.com/smellthetruth/2018/10/11/high-times-postpones-sacramento-cannabis-cup/||2018-10-11|Oscar Pascual||High Times is postponing its trademark Cannabis Cup festival just weeks before its scheduled date in Sacramento, the Sacramento Bee reports.

“After multiple discussions with state and city leaders and extensive deliberations with all stakeholders, Cannabis Cup organizers have determined it is in the best interests of all parties to postpone the event,” wrote High Times organizers in an email statement.

The postponement comes partly due to new legislation recently signed by Gov. Jerry Brown.

Brown approved AB 2020 on Sept. 26, allowing local governments to approve permits for temporary cannabis events at any venue, rather than being strictly limited to state fairgrounds.

Joe Devlin, Sacramento’s chief of cannabis policy and enforcement, is hopeful that the event will take place next year, with April 2019 being the targeted time frame.

“It generated $60,000 in tax revenue for one single event. I think the other thing that it did for not just Sacramento, but for the state, was demonstrate that these events can take place, that they can operate compliantly, and they can do so without jeopardizing public health, public safety,” Devlin told KCRA Sacramento.

“My hope and expectations are that they operate compliantly within the letter of the law,” he added. “And to continue to really put the industry’s best foot forward as we really enter into this kind of new and emerging space.”

High Times’ latest postponement is the latest in a series of gaffes surrounding the touring Cannabis Cup festival. This year’s Southern California event was canceled after failing to earn approval for on-site cannabis consumption, and 2017’s Las Vegas festival was marred by federal interference and inclement weather.

Customers who already bought tickets will be honored at future events, or they can get a full refund by emailing CannabisCupHelp@hightimes.com.

Smell The Truth is one of the internet’s most popular destinations for cannabis-related news and culture. This blog is not written or edited by SFGate or the San Francisco Chronicle. The authors are solely responsible for the content.
