title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
How Sharks look after first week of play|http://blog.sfgate.com|http://blog.sfgate.com/sjsharks/2015/10/11/how-sharks-look-after-first-week-of-play/||2015-10-11|Ross Mckeon||Yes, it’s a small sample size — the Sharks have played exactly 2.4 percent of their schedule — but that’s not going to stop us from commenting on first impressions.

It can be difficult to discern the difference from one coach’s system to another, but the Sharks have demonstrated a more pressure style of play after just two games with new bench boss Peter DeBoer. Coincidence or not, Anaheim coach Bruce Boudreau commented during Saturday’s morning skate his Ducks would have to move the puck quick because San Jose gets doesn’t allow much time for plays to be made. Sure enough, the Ducks couldn’t sustain much in terms of an offensive push or possession time in Saturday night’s 2-0 loss at SAP Center.

You can’t just say “pressure the puck more” and expect it to magically happen, especially with similar personnel that departed coach Todd McLellan had to work with. The difference is DeBoer has truly rolled four forward lines and three pairs of defensemen to keep every skater as fresh as possible for 60 minutes (or more). That was evident on Saturday when San Jose enjoyed long stretches of puck possession in Anaheim’s end.

Not to get carried away, but doesn’t Martin Jones look like he’s copied Carey Price’s style of goaltending? Jones has the same habit of dropping to his knees while moving economically from post to post just like Montreal’s Price. Jones is “quiet” in goal, hasn’t been caught out of position, and has made some difficult saves look routine. He’s got a calm demeanor and gives his team confidence. It’s just two games, but Jones has stopped the last 46 shots faced after letting the very first — on a deflection — get behind him. That’s a .979 save percentage and 0.50 goals-against average.

Very much related to Jones’ fast start is the perfect penalty kill (7-for-7), which includes 90 seconds of being down two men in Los Angeles. San Jose know is has to improve on a 78.5 percent kill from last year, which ranked ahead of only five other teams.

Another reason why the Sharks have taken to DeBoer’s system is their forward depth and good health on the blue line. Beyond the same 12 forwards who have suited up, San Jose has two more legitimate NHLers waiting in the wings in Ben Smith and Melker Karlsson, who is currently skating for the AHL’s Barracuda. And once Nikolay Goldobin learns to be more defensively responsible he’s going to be an intriguing fit on a scoring line.

Veteran offseason signing Paul Martin has complimented Brent Burns for two games. Burns has jumped up in the play, provided San Jose with odd-man advantages below the hash marks while Martin has been back to cover. Martin, too, has jumped up a time or two (remember San Jose’s game-tying goal in L.A.?) so there seems to be good communication between the pair. Burns and Martin are a plus-2 thus far.

Think Joe Thornton had a quiet game on Saturday because he was held off the score sheet and won only two of seven draws? Guess again. Thornton led the team with four takeaways, put five shots on goal and blocked two others. His average ice time may be down (17:02) because DeBoer is rolling four lines, but Thornton — along with linemates Joe Pavelski and rookie Joonas Donskoi — are a plus-4. Thornton was already more of a complete player than he gets credit for, but he’s clearly leading by example and showing he has total buy-in.

The whispers started about Patrick Marleau and his possible offensive decline when he scored 19 goals last season at age 35. He potted two on Saturday, and nearly completed a hat trick with a couple good chances on San Jose’s only power play late in the game. The Marleau-Logan Couture-Joel Ward combination has been San Jose’s most consistent threat up front.

The Sharks stuck with it against Anaheim despite getting outshot early during a scoreless game inside the final minute of the second period. They resisted the temptation of forcing things to impress a home opening crowd. In contrast, San Jose veered from the plan far too often last season.

The team has done a good job of keeping the potential distraction of Raffi Torres’ half-season suspension at arm’s length.

As hokey as it may sound, the new paint job and interior changes to both the locker room at SAP Center and the team’s practice rink at Sharks’ Ice is a constant reminder of a fresh start and something that’s new again.
