title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
How Providence St. Joseph uses technology to improve mental health|http://www.sfgate.com|https://blog.sfgate.com/storystudio/2018/08/27/how-providence-st-joseph-uses-technology-to-improve-mental-health/||2018-08-27|||By StoryStudio

For every American that receives treatment for a mental illness, there are many more that don’t.

Provider networks tend to be narrower for mental health than primary care, making it hard to find a therapist in network. A shortage of providers, especially in rural areas, makes it even harder. Taking off time from work every week to drive to an appointment isn’t an option for many workers. And because of the stigma surrounding mental illness, many people are too afraid or embarrassed to ask for a long lunch break anyway.

Providence St. Joseph Health, a not-for-profit health system with 50 hospitals and more than 800 clinics across seven states, wants to make it easier for people to get access to mental health care. Its growing telepsychiatry program, which allows patients to connect with psychiatrists via videoconferencing, has expanded to 17 hospital emergency departments in California and Washington—and counting.

“Mental health is a part of overall healthcare and we have a moral obligation to bring this care to our patients wherever they present. Telepsychiatry enables us to provide care in places that otherwise would not receive care,” says Arpan Waghray, MD, system director for Tele behavioral medicine at Providence St. Joseph Health and Chief Medical Officer of Well Being Trust. “Our organization exists to serve the poor and the vulnerable. Not having these services in certain areas is not acceptable.”

Our organization exists to serve the poor and the vulnerable. Not having these services in certain areas is not acceptable

Dr. Waghray says that in rural counties with a population of 2,500 to 20,000, about 75 percent lack a psychiatrist. About 95 percent lack a child psychiatrist. Absent telepsychiatry, a significant portion of the population would go without care.

What is telepsychiatry?

Telepsychiatry allows patients to visit a psychiatrist via two-way video communication. Instead of driving across town or across the state for an in-person visit, patients can have a psychiatric evaluation from home, work or from a local clinic.

Emergency departments also use telepsychiatry to assess patients with behavioral health issues. This allows emergency doctors to provide more efficient, quality care.

What are the benefits of telepsychiatry?

Because of its versatility, telepsychiatry allows more people to get the care they need. The many benefits include:

It’s convenient. People in rural areas don’t have to drive 90 minutes to their appointment. A new mom suffering postpartum depression doesn’t have to hunt for childcare—a task that only adds to feeling overwhelmed.

It’s effective. A study conducted by C2 Solutions of the care outcomes for 8,000 patients who used telemedicine services such as telepsychiatry found no difference between the virtual appointment and an in-person office visit.

It may lead to improved outcomes. A primary care physician and a telepsychiatrist can work together to develop a comprehensive care plan. This may lead to more targeted treatment and improved recovery.

Patients have a shorter length of stay when hospitalized.

It allows hospitals to provide around-the-clock mental health care. Hospitals that lack mental health services can offer them via telepsychiatry.

For many, video services make therapy possible. Children with autistic spectrum disorder might feel more at ease at home. Homebound elderly patients would finally have access to traditional psychiatric care. When someone faces a critical situation, they can get an appointment quickly, which may prevent the situation from escalating.

How Providence St. Joseph uses telepsychiatry

Providence St. Joseph Health embraces telepsychiatry within its hospitals as well as with its nonaffiliated partners. Its psychiatrists are highly trained to evaluate and treat psychiatric illnesses in patients with complex medical issues. They also understand the relationship between psychological and physical illness.

Providence St. Joseph’s mental health professionals have received additional training in how to deliver care virtually, which requires some additional training.

“We go through extra steps to make sure that when we use video technology, we retain the bedside manner,” says Dr. Waghray. “Even camera etiquette and lighting are important. We want to make telepsychiatry as close to in-person care as can be.”

We want to make telepsychiatry as close to in-person care as can be

Providence St. Joseph also makes sure on-site clinicians have thorough training in how to use the telepsychiatry platform. Educating clinicians ensures patients receive seamless care—as seamless as walking from one treatment room to the next.

Telepsychiatry is currently available to medical and surgical inpatients as well as emergency departments. Dr. Waghray says the health system plans to expand the service to elderly patients and Providence caregivers.

Using technology to better treat depression

According to a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention survey, one out of every 12 Americans experiences depression in a two-week period. Evidence shows screening adults for depression in a primary care setting is beneficial: U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) reports that patients diagnosed with depression who then received treatment showed symptom improvement.

However, busy primary care physicians typically screen less than half the patients they see. Providence St. Joseph is developing a platform to make it easier for primary care physicians to help patients start a treatment path for depression.

The digital solution includes customized education and self-help tools, including computerized cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT). Patients will also have the ability to communicate with their doctor between visits. “We need to better support patients with behavioral health conditions,” says Eviatar Frankel, director of digital strategy for Providence St. Joseph Health. “This digital solution provides education and lets patients track the progression of their condition.”

The platform, which will soon launch as a pilot program in Oregon and Washington, is meant to enhance rather than replace traditional therapy. “There is a shortage of resources and providers nationally,” says Frankel. “Much of the patient population has long wait times to see a behavioral health provider. These tools provide resources they can use while they wait to see a therapist.”

Putting the patient first

Providence St. Joseph Health understands how technology can make health care easier to fit into people’s daily lives. Its advances in telepsychiatry compliment existing services such as Circle, a mobile health app for expectant moms; Express Care, for on-demand health care; and Optimal Aging, which connects older adults with home care services.

“As professionals, we need to start thinking about designing care around patients and their families,” says Dr. Waghray. “That’s where telehealth fits in. It’s about leveraging technology to deliver new models of care.”

To find out more about how Providence St. Joseph Health supports mental health, visit psjhealth.org.
