title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Invisible Cars|http://blog.sfgate.com|https://blog.sfgate.com/bicycle/2018/04/27/invisible-cars/||2018-04-27|Brian Coyne||Lots of effort goes into making bikes more visible, from the ordinary (lights and reflectors) to the strange but intriguing (laser bike lanes) to the fatuous (a Missouri proposal to require 15-foot flags on bikes).

But there’s another visibility problem on our streets: to many Americans, cars and car infrastructure are completely invisible. The inability to see cars—call it car blindness—is the only way to explain why Supervisor Katy Tang publicly called out the 20-pound scooter as a hazard to the pedestrian in this photo but said nothing about the two-ton car illegally blocking the crosswalk in the same photo. I’m not defending the scooters or the rule-defying companies that make them, but it’s a serious problem that our elected officials think a car violating a pedestrian’s right of way is unworthy of notice or mention, even in a social media post about dangers to pedestrians. In contrast, bikes, bicyclists, and bike infrastructure still strike many people as unusual. This dichotomy—invisible cars and hyper-visible bikes—skews our transportation priorities and debates and is the root cause of many of the obstacles bicyclists face.

Car blindness manifests as a double standard, where the downsides of motor vehicles are ignored, minimized or waved off as inevitable, while the downsides of other modes of transportation (see #scootersbehavingbadly) provoke public outcry and official action. The tens of billions of dollars in local, state and federal tax money spent each year on the building and upkeep of car infrastructure goes basically unremarked upon, because this spending, like the infrastructure it buys, is so familiar as to be invisible. In the Bay Area, a mile of freeway costs around 1000 times as much as a mile of top-of-the-line protected bikeway, but any discussion of bike lanes will feature the claim that bike infrastructure is an unaffordable extravagance. Likewise, at least 30,000 Americans per year are killed in car crashes, a figure that is met with a collective shrug, and few drivers who kill bicyclists and pedestrians face even a citation. It wasn’t always this way, of course. When cars first proliferated in American cities, the new machines and their costs were still visible, and 1920s newspapers frequently expressed outrage at pedestrian deaths.

Local officials’ car blindness routinely makes it harder to build quality bike infrastructure. Consider, for example, the bike lane in Orinda that Streetsblog California memorably dubbed “the worst bike lane in the world.” The lane, for bicyclists going straight, runs between two lanes of cars turning right onto a freeway. Larry Thies, Orinda’s city engineer, told Streetsblog that any fixes to this death trap would be problematic for aesthetic reasons:

“We talked about [improving the bike lane] in a general sense, but aesthetically it would be a very hard sell in Orinda. We’re not Berkeley or Oakland; Orinda is a semi-rural community, and it’s not looking to make big changes. We’re not prepared to put green bike lanes throughout Orinda.”

Car blindness explains how a massive freeway interchange—ten lanes of cars atop six lanes of car and acres of parking lots in between—can be perfectly compatible with the town’s “semi-rural” character. To the severely car-blind, the “semi-rural” interchange, which abuts and in fact dwarfs Orinda’s downtown, simply disappears. Protected bike lanes through the interchange, however, would be unexpected and jarring, a visual affront. (The “worst bike lane” was eventually painted green, but the right-turning cars on either side remain.)

Backlash against the Bay Area’s Ford-branded bikeshare system is a similar case. It’s genuinely worth asking whether an exclusive licensing agreement with a private company is right for a public transit system, but some complaints focus on the presence of car company logos on public streets. The big blue bikes do indeed sport Ford logos, but car blindness is so epidemic that it feels necessary to point out that car company logos are also on, well, cars. Hearing people claim with straight faces that car company logos on vehicles using our streets are a new phenomenon is almost surreal, an indication of the most advanced and severe car-blindness.

Making our streets safe and equitable requires first of all re-learning to see our streets and how we use them, and activists worldwide have taken on this challenge. In 2005, when the designers at Rebar Collective fed a parking meter for several hours and set out Astroturf and lawn chairs, they simultaneously invented the parklet and helped make visible the thousands of bits of curbside public space that had vanished from our consciousness except as car spots. Transportation researchers recently attempted the daunting task of calculating how much space Los Angeles County devotes to parking lots and came up with 200 square miles, an area four times the size of San Francisco. Locally, Valencia Street is often described as the Mission’s “bike street,” and to a casual observer the number of bikes, bike racks, and bike corrals on Valencia is striking. But as I wrote in 2015, 84% of Valencia’s pavement is dedicated to moving and storing automobiles.

Removing the cloak of invisibility around cars doesn’t mean being anti-car; it just means being realistic about the costs and benefits of cars and car infrastructure. Escaping car-blindness also lets us ask new questions.

Can San Francisco hold up car-dominated Valencia Street as a model biking street? Is there really no more room for housing in Los Angeles? If a freeway interchange is compatible with Orinda’s semi-rural character, couldn’t protected bike lanes be compatible with semi-rural character as well? If we’re doing something about scooters blocking sidewalks, shouldn’t we do something about cars blocking sidewalks? None of these questions even make sense to the car-blind. Let’s put some of the effort we use to make bikes more visible into making cars visible as well.
