title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Is There Any Better Way to Greet the Day?|http://sfinsider.sfgate.com|https://sfinsider.sfgate.com/a-little-russia-breakfast-is-there-any-better-way-to-greet-the-day/||2018-03-02|Sf Insider||The Little Russia neighborhood of San Francisco was settled by Russian immigrants in the 1920s and continued to grow until the late 1990s. As might be expected, Russian culture permeates the area and residents agree that there’s nothing better than a Little Russia breakfast.

Southern Specialties at the Hard Knox Cafe and San Francisco Soul Food Restaurant

The Hard Knox Cafe and San Francisco Soul Food Restaurant brings people together with hearty Southern breakfast dishes. Southern style comes through strong in pulled pork eggs Benedict, corned beef hash and beignets served with seasonal fruits. The Hard Knox omelet is a favorite with a choice of breakfast meat, tomatoes, spinach, cheddar cheese and onions served with either hash browns or grits and toast. Belgian waffles and French toast are great options for those who prefer a sweet treat in the morning.

Authentic Hawaiian Dishes Served at Grindz Cafe

Who knew Spam was available on a breakfast menu? Well, it can be found at Grindz Cafe in several items such as the Spam and cheese waffle, panko-crusted Spam and grilled Spam with calrose rise, teri sauce, furikake and nori. The Hawaiian taste gets turned up with the luau Benedict made with kalua pig, Kings sweet bread, smoked loom salmon, two poached eggs, tarragon hollandaise sauce and potatoes. Sweet options can include malasadas Portuguese donuts with cinnamon and sugar and puka French toast made with thick slices of brioche bread, pina berry compote and vanilla chantilly.

Cassava Serves Abundant California Cuisine

The abundance of Northern California comes through in the dishes prepared at Cassava, a favorite for neighborhood food. Cassava’s continental breakfast comes with yogurt and granola with honey, seasonal fruits, a toasted Semifreddi’s butter croissant and a soft shell poached egg. Those with bigger appetites will appreciate the open-face avocado egg sandwich served with a fried egg, arugula and house-made harissa aioli on rustic levain wheat toast. Those who like a sweet finish will love the sweet pastry bread pudding with whipped cream.

Breakfast Served All Day at Fog Baby Cafe

Those looking for great food in a casual neighborhood restaurant should not miss Fog Baby Cafe. Its breakfast is a great way to start any day, starting with a granola fruit parfait, a daily breakfast of eggs, potatoes and sourdough toast or lox on a bagel. Classic crepes are savory favorites as are breakfast sandwiches made with eggs, cheddar and bacon on a bagel or English muffin and a Belgian waffle with fruit, syrup and powdered sugar.
