title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Leadership changes announced at Contemporary Jewish Museum, Museum of the African Diaspora|http://www.sfgate.com/art|https://datebook.sfchronicle.com/art-exhibits/leadership-changes-announced-at-contemporary-jewish-museum-museum-of-the-african-diaspora||2018-10-10|Charles Desmarais,Ryan Kost,Sam Whiting||Major leadership changes have been announced at two of San Francisco’s premier visual arts organizations.

The Contemporary Jewish Museum said Wednesday, Oct. 10, that Chief Curator Renny Pritikin will retire at the end of December. The Museum of the African Diaspora, also in the Yerba Buena district, announced that its director and chief executive officer, Linda Harrison, will assume leadership on Jan. 1 of the Newark Museum, New Jersey’s largest such institution.

Pritikin, who joined CJM in 2014, has been highly visible in the Bay Area as a curator and administrator for decades, having served as co-director of New Langton Arts in San Francisco, chief curator at the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts and director of the Nelson Gallery and Fine Arts Collection at UC Davis. He taught in the curatorial practices graduate program at the California College of the Arts in San Francisco for 12 years.

“After 40 years in the field and approaching my 70th birthday, with a great exhibition schedule lined up at the CJM over the next several years and an incredible professional team in place, I think this is an appropriate moment to step back from my daily responsibilities,” Pritikin said in a statement.

CJM Executive Director Lori Starr said, “Renny has succeeded in foregrounding the CJM’s core values of dialogue and diversity of opinion, passion for the Jewish experience, commitment to artists, and the pursuit of excellence.” She said she expected that Pritikin would be involved in future projects “as we shape our curatorial plans going forward.”

Harrison joined MoAD in 2013 after a successful career in business and real estate. She told the New York Times that she planned “to bring the ‘spirit of joie de vivre’ she feels at the Museum of the African Diaspora to the Newark Museum.”

Reached by phone, L. Wade Rose, chair of MoAD’s board of directors, said Harrison “exceeded the expectations the board had for her when we hired her. We wanted an externally oriented leader who would bring the museum into a leadership role as a contemporary institution of arts and culture. Now we’ve seen what is possible.”
