title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Marijuana can enhance pleasure and frequency of sex, research finds|http://www.sfgate.com/cannabis|https://blog.sfgate.com/smellthetruth/2018/09/10/marijuana-can-enhance-pleasure-and-frequency-of-sex-research-finds/?search=cannabis||2018-09-10|Oscar Pascual||Recent studies are proving that cannabis use can make for better and increased sexual activity.

In a study published in the Journal of Sexual Medicine (JSM), researchers from Stanford University analyzed data from a group of 28,176 women and 22,943 men in order “to elucidate whether a relation between marijuana use and sexual frequency exists using a nationally representative sample of reproductive-age men and women.”

Experts concluded that “marijuana use is independently associated with increased sexual frequency and does not appear to impair sexual function,” with cannabis users reported having 20 percent more sex than people who have never used the substance.

Another study published in JSM conducted by Saint Louis University in Missouri was tasked with the purpose “to determine if marijuana use before sex affects the sexual experience, by how much, and which domains of sexual function are affected,” reports Forbes.

Researchers polled 133 sexually-active adult women during their annual ObGyn check-ups by asking them to fill out a detailed questionnaire regarding marijuana use before sex.

29 percent of the women admitted consuming marijuana prior before sex. Of those women, 68 percent reported more pleasurable sex. However, 16 percent said cannabis use ruined their sexual experience, while the remaining 16 percent remained undecided or were unaware.

These recent findings build on a 2016 federal study that found both sexes can use cannabis to treat sexual dysfunctions such as Erectile Dysfunction or Sexual Arousal Disorder.

Smell The Truth is one of the internet’s most popular destinations for cannabis-related news and culture. This blog is not written or edited by SFGate or the San Francisco Chronicle. The authors are solely responsible for the content.
