title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Marijuana use among baby boomers is on the rise, study finds|http://www.sfgate.com/cannabis|https://blog.sfgate.com/smellthetruth/2018/09/06/marijuana-use-among-baby-boomers-is-on-the-rise-study-finds/?search=cannabis||2018-09-06|Oscar Pascual||The Baby Boomer generation is using cannabis at a rapidly growing rate, according to new findings.

In a study published this week in the journal Drug and Alcohol Dependence, researchers found that the percentage of marijuana use among adults aged 50-64 has doubled in the past decade, while the percentage of users 65 and over has increased seven-fold.

Researchers analyzed responses from 17,608 adults aged 50 and older from the 2015-2016 National Survey on Drug Use and Health. They found that nearly 9 percent of US adults between the ages of 50 and 64 have used marijuana at least once during the survey year, while 3 percent of adults over 65 report cannabis use.

The recent findings were compared to figures from 2006-2007, when only 4.5 percent of 50-64 year-olds and a paltry 0.4 percent of 65-plus adults reported marijuana use.

“The baby boomer generation grew up during a period of significant cultural change, including a surge in popularity of marijuana in the 1960s and 1970s. We’re now in a new era of changing attitudes around marijuana, and as stigma declines and access improves, it appears that baby boomers—many of whom have prior experience smoking marijuana—are increasingly using it,” said lead author Benjamin Han, MD, MPH, an assistant professor in the Department of Medicine’s Division of Geriatric Medicine and Palliative Care and Department of Population Health at NYU Langone Health.

The study also found that baby boomers have the most overall experience with pot, as almost 55 percent of middle-age adults have used cannabis at some point in their lives, while about 22 percent of older adults have done so.

“Marijuana has been shown to have benefits in treating certain conditions that affect older adults, including neuropathic pain and nausea. However, certain older adults may be at heightened risk for adverse effects associated with marijuana use, particularly if they have certain underlying chronic diseases or are also engaged in unhealthy substance use,” said Han.

Smell The Truth is one of the internet’s most popular destinations for cannabis-related news and culture. This blog is not written or edited by SFGate or the San Francisco Chronicle. The authors are solely responsible for the content.
