title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Marijuana is the most referenced drug in popular music, study finds|http://www.sfgate.com/cannabis|https://blog.sfgate.com/smellthetruth/2018/09/17/marijuana-is-the-most-referenced-drug-in-popular-music-study-finds/?search=cannabis||2018-09-17|Oscar Pascual||Recent pop music lyrics are mentioning cannabis more than alcohol, tobacco and other drugs, according to new research.

A study published last week in the Journal of the American Board of Family Medicine found that 19 of the Top 40 songs of 2016 mentioned either opioids, marijuana, alcohol, or tobacco at least once in the prose of the song.

A research team comprised of experts from the University of Minnesota and Wayne State University examined the lyrics of Billboard’s top 40 songs for each year from 1986 to 2016, looking for songs that reference marijuana, alcohol, opioids and tobacco.

They found marijuana references in over 30 percent of the top 40 songs of 2016, more than alcohol at 25 percent, and opioids at around 13 percent.

“Public perception regarding marijuana has changed, from largely considering the drug a nuisance to society to the majority of Americans accepting the use either medically or recreationally, and this shift in public attitude may have influenced the acceptability of mentioning marijuana in Top 40’s music, as displayed by our analysis,” the authors wrote.

While marijuana references are now standard in pop music, tobacco has fallen out of favor with songwriters as no song in 2016’s top 40 singles mentioned tobacco at all.

“Although marijuana use has become increasing acceptable among American consumers, tobacco has become increasingly unpopular and stigmatized.”

Experts warn, however, that the current acceptability of cannabis in popular music could soon be mirrored by opioids, as the 13 percent of 2016 songs referencing painkillers is almost double the 7 percent found in 2015.

“If this demonstrated ‘acceptability’ trend is mirrored through a similar rise in the mention of opioid narcotics in Top 40’s music, America’s epidemic of overdose fatality may continue to escalate,” researchers concluded.

Smell The Truth is one of the internet’s most popular destinations for cannabis-related news and culture. This blog is not written or edited by SFGate or the San Francisco Chronicle. The authors are solely responsible for the content.
