title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Melissa McCarthy takes serious route in portraying notorious literary forger|http://www.sfgate.com/tv|https://datebook.sfchronicle.com/movies-tv/melissa-mccarthy-takes-serious-route-in-portraying-notorious-literary-forger||2018-10-17|Jessica Zack,Peter Hartlaub,G. Allen Johnson,Pam Grady,Jacqueline Cutler,Mick Lasalle||Melissa McCarthy’s funniest roles, dating back to her 2011 scene-stealing performance as Megan in “Bridesmaids” (for which she was nominated for a supporting actress Oscar), have showcased her willingness to embrace outrageousness and to throw herself into some very physical comedy. It’s been a trademark in McCarthy’s subsequent Paul Feig-directed movies, “Heat” with Sandra Bullock and the CIA comedy thriller “Spy,” as well as in her viral “Saturday Night Live” impersonation last year of former White House press secretary Sean Spicer berating the news media from behind her rolling lectern.

Creating these kinds of brazen characters “from the outside in” has always come naturally to McCarthy because, she says, “I’m someone who just throws it all out there. This probably isn’t a surprise to anyone, but I’m not guarded.”

Given her natural inclination to be brash and lead with a smile, McCarthy said portraying her latest character, the infamously gruff biographer turned literary forger Lee Israel, in the new movie “Can You Ever Forgive Me?” required a totally different approach. “I had to start with the idea of not leading outward, but instead I kept thinking, I’m tortoising, just tortoising, the way Lee kept everything under her shell to protect herself,” McCarthy said in an interview following the film’s world premiere at the Telluride Film Festival.

It’s an unusually immersive and dramatic performance that’s already generated Oscar buzz — for McCarthy, as well as for co-star Richard E. Grant, who plays Jack Hock, Israel’s loyal friend and cunning accomplice. McCarthy is almost unrecognizable as the irascible alcoholic Israel. She wears a drab brown wig with gray roots, no makeup and down-on-her-luck posture. She’s so bitter she practically snarls. It’s almost jarring to see her in person after the screening looking radiant, with color in her cheeks and her hair in bouncy waves.

A semi-successful New York author in the 1980s, Israel wrote highly regarded cultural biographies of such figures as actress Tallulah Bankhead and cosmetics titan Estee Lauder. Her work fell out of favor when the publishing industry turned toward celebrity tell-alls instead of deeply researched bios. After a string of poor reviews, with her work piling up in remainder piles, Israel, penniless, discovered she had a knack for impersonating famous 20th century literary voices in forged letters that could then be sold as originals to collectors and autograph dealers.

She started by penning short, witty letters from Fanny Brice and selling them to small antique book shops. Eventually she became more brazen, stealing letters from literary archives and enlisting Hock’s help to forge 400 letters of faux correspondence from Ernest Hemingway, Dorothy Parker, Noël Coward and others on a cache of antique typewriters she kept in her squalid Upper West Side apartment.

Israel pleaded guilty in federal court in 1993 and wrote the 2008 memoir “Can You Ever Forgive Me?” (on which the film is based) about her unlikely period as a felon.

“I love the idea of a woman who is uncompromisingly herself, even if that means she is prickly, difficult, complicated and doesn’t easily fit the mold of a typical protagonist,” said director Marielle Heller, an East Bay native who also directed “Diary of a Teenage Girl” (2015).

Heller and McCarthy agreed that telling Israel’s story was a refreshing departure from the unfortunate burden of likability that can weigh on female-centered stories. If this kind of antihero “were a male character, nobody would even question why this is an interesting person,” said Heller. “I think there’s something fun and cathartic about seeing a woman who says the things you’re not supposed to say, who just doesn’t give a s– about the way she’s perceived by others.”

“I completely fell in love with Lee,” said McCarthy. “I don’t think people should have to apologize for being themselves, even if they make the world more difficult for themselves. We all know people like this who destroy their relationships, can’t seem to get out of their own way. Lee was always the smartest person in the room, but she made herself invisible.”

In an early party scene at the home of Israel’s stylish literary agent (played by “SNL” alum Jane Curtin), Israel is exasperated to the point of rage with the fawning over best-selling author Tom Clancy (Kevin Carolan). She downs a few scotches, steals someone’s warm overcoat and slips out – alone.

“Lee is like a porcupine going through life, everyone getting out of the way of her bristles, but she finds comfort with this one person, Jack, who can stand to get close,” said Grant.

“Their unlikely bond is definitely the heart and soul of the movie,” McCarthy said. “Their friendship, a love story in a way, is the thing that I felt the most connected to throughout.”

When asked if she’d like to keep doing drama as well as the comedy for which she’s better known, McCarthy (who just finished shooting Andrea Berloff’s Irish mobster drama “The Kitchen”) said, “Absolutely. I’ve always just wanted to go back and forth between the two. In my head, it’s the exact same practice. What’s different is the reception of the two because comedy is so subjective. Ten people in a room laugh, three don’t and one doesn’t care. I think people are unnecessarily harder on comedies, and I don’t know why.

“The decision to play Lee was easy once I met Mari. I was told, ‘Think about it for a while, don’t make a rash decision.’ But I just knew. I said, ‘Great, I’m doing it.’”

“Can You Ever Forgive Me?” (R) opens Friday, Oct. 26, in Bay Area theaters.
