title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Must-Visit Bars Near Saint Francis Wood|http://sfinsider.sfgate.com|https://sfinsider.sfgate.com/must-visit-bars-near-saint-francis-wood/||2018-10-18|Sf Insider||San Francisco’s affluent St. Francis Wood neighborhood is situated in the southwestern corner of the city. Those living in St. Francis Wood as well as visitors are fortunate enough to have many available options when it comes to establishments that serve adult beverages. Following is a list of a few of the many fine bars near the Saint Francis Wood neighborhood.

The Dubliner

The Dubliner West Portal could have easily been picked up from its namesake city, Dublin, Ireland, and plopped down in its current location in the heart of San Francisco. The authentic Irish Bar vibe here keeps the place packed more often than not, with guests enjoying trivia games, pool tables, plenty of TVs and a very well-stocked jukebox. Patrons can enjoy flowing glasses of Guinness on tap. Perhaps best of all, for those who like to watch their favorite team from across the pond, the Dubliner opens at 7 a.m. on Saturdays and Sundays. to broadcast football, or soccer as it is known in San Francisco.

Miraloma Club

Those seeking a classic neighborhood place where everybody is known by name after just several visits can’t go wrong with the Miraloma Club. The Miraloma Club is not anything fancy, but it does not try to be. Guests enjoy classic neighborhood bar amenities such as pool tables and a jukebox, and most of the bartenders have been working there awhile so they are familiar with the needs of all of their regular patrons.

Grandma’s Saloon

Who can resist checking out a bar with the word Grandma in it for at least the time it takes for one drink? Grandma’s Saloon is a textbook dive bar serving classic cocktails and beer. It also hosts traditional dive bar activities such as weekly pool tournaments.

Bars near Saint Francis Wood are as diverse as the city of San Francisco itself, which means that there is a good chance that you will find one to your liking. Check out the spots mentioned above to get a feel on what the area has to offer before exploring other bars near Saint Francis Wood.
