title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Must-Visit Dessert Places in Union Square|http://sfinsider.sfgate.com|https://sfinsider.sfgate.com/must-visit-dessert-places-in-union-square/#comments||2018-10-18|Sf Insider||Union Square is one of the popular shopping destinations in San Francisco. Tourists and locals alike flock to this area throughout the year, whether they’re looking to do some shopping or simply to admire the window displays, and the neighborhood’s well equipped with food and drinks to fuel visiting shoppers. After all, with so many stores to visit, it’s almost a challenge not to stop for a bite to eat. There’s also nothing like a good dessert to bring new energy to the day. These Union Square-area dessert eateries can cap off the day with something sweet.

Café Madeleine

Make a quick stop in at Café Madeleine and grab both lunch and dessert in this bright little shop. The restaurant serves sandwiches, salads and other savory items as well as an assortment of baked goods. They have full-size cakes available for special occasions, too. However, for people who are just popping in for the afternoon, a smaller single-serving dessert is an ideal fit. Inside the large glass case, customers might find a dome-shaped matcha cake with passion fruit filling or a key lime tart topped with meringue. This spot also has a variety of cookies, cupcakes and biscotti.

Beard Papa’s

Beard Papa’s stores can be found throughout the Bay Area, with one conveniently tucked away in Union Square’s Westfield San Francisco Centre. The stand sells light and airy cream puffs filled with a mix of custard and whipped cream, which comes in a variety of flavors ranging from vanilla to matcha. Guests can opt for the standard puff, or they can choose a fancier cream puff coated in chocolate or other flavored shells. Although originally from Japan, Beard Papa has found its place in San Francisco serving creamy desserts to sweets lovers in the city.

Boba Guys

When you’re on the go, a sweet drink might be easier to handle than a plated dessert. Boba Guys looks more like a modern coffee shop than a milk tea place, but their menu will definitely sound familiar to Boba fans. When customers step up to the counter, they get to customize their drink by choosing from a variety of teas, toppings and milk, as well as by picking how sweet they’d like the tea. Tea options range widely from the classic black tea to more unique options like the horchata, which is composed of rice milk and cinnamon.

Nothing finishes off a day of exploring quite like a tasty dessert. If you’re in the Union Square area, these nearby dessert joints can get you your sweet fix.
