title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
New Napa Destination Resort Stirs Up Exciting New In-Suite Cooking Experience|http://www.sfgate.com|https://blog.sfgate.com/storystudio/2018/10/16/new-napa-destination-resort-stirs-up-exciting-new-in-suite-cooking-experience/||2018-10-16|||By StoryStudio

How often do you check into your suite with a full kitchen then do little more than make coffee? You’re not alone, most guests never take advantage of an in-suite kitchen, even though cooking together is considered one of our most romantic pastimes. So why don’t we do it more? Because cooking while on holiday means buying ingredients like spices and salt you are never going to use up and certainly don’t want to pack in your luggage or carry-on. And who wants to taint a romantic getaway by making pasta with red sauce from a jar?

This scenario has changed, radically. Vista Collina Resort, in partnership with Hestan Cue Smart Cooking, will offer an in-suite culinary experience that has no equal. Guests in each of the new destination resort’s 39 suites will enjoy the opportunity to create an exceptional meal engaging Hestan Cue’s unique video-guided “Smart Cooking System.” Beginning with Pannetone French Toast with Berry Compote for a languorous breakfast or Salmon Grenboise for dinner, recipes culled from Executive Chef Vincent Lesage, cooking in private with hand-delivered ingredients adds still more luster to the luxury suite experience.

On November 8th Vista Collina Resort will introduce its innovative private culinary program during a candlelit dinner featuring Chef Philip Tessier. Winner of the Bocuse d’Or, the world’s most prestigious cooking competition, Chef Tessier will present the concept of perfect recipes in the making paired brilliantly with limited-release Hestan Vineyards wines. The reception, four-course tasting menu and wine pairings will culminate with a demonstration of the Hestan Cue app-guided cooking system, a program that may well influence personal cooking in much the same way Hestan founder Stanley Cheng’s hard-anodized steel cookware improved how we sauté!

The November 8th Chef Tessier-Hestan Cue Dinner provides an excellent opportunity to visit Napa’s newest culinary and wine destination. The Vintner’s Room, comprised of broad hardwood flooring, exposed beams and pillar candle chandeliers, captures the resort’s aesthetic, a rustic elegance the encapsulates Napa’s unique blend of refined taste amid an agrarian foundation, of family legacy and new community. The family style seating will encourage conversation and new friendships, a convivial atmosphere that will establish the social standard at subsequent Vista Collina wine dinners and events.

Vista Collina Resort was designed to encompass the Napa living experience. The Village showcases boutique wineries, craft breweries and local seasonal cuisine in one locale. The Fivetown Grocery evokes the fabled country store, brimming with local provender and mercantile within an upscale marketplace. In-suite cooking is yet one more reimagining of this bucolic experience, an opportunity to use local produce and wild caught Pacific coast salmon to craft a meal of one’s own.

“Napa Valley is filled with Michelin-starred restaurants, which is why we decided to create a unique hands-on experience for guests to not only taste but learn about the food they are indulging in and how it connects to the destination they are visiting,” observes Chef Lesage. “We are looking to inspire our guests through different senses to capture a reimagined Napa experience.”

The creation of Michelin-starred chefs and software engineers, there may never have been another cooking program that garnered praise from Bon Appétit, Forbes and Wired magazines! This is because Hestan Cue offers far more than step-by-step instruction, the Bluetooth-enabled induction burner and smart cookware actually adjust the corresponding temperature to guarantee perfection from your video-guided recipe.

Like a private cooking tutorial held in the confines of your private suite, you not only prepare an elegant and delicious meal but come away with the knowledge of various cooking techniques. The whole experience is akin to engaging a renowned chef throughout your entire preparation, a master who goes poof! the moment you plate your romantic meal and pour the wine.

The Vista Collina planners understood their Napa destination would celebrate the very virtues of the surrounding valley, presenting eight hand-selected winery tasting rooms, lawn bowling accompanied by Chef Lesage prepared picnics and ideal environs for weddings and other social events. In-suite cooking brings two other local elements to the destination, innovation and collaboration. The entire celebration melds together on November 8th, when a renowned chef joins an award-winning winery to gather and display the future of the personal culinary craft as we know it. Visit the Vista Collina Resort to reserve your place at the Chef Tessier dinner and to learn more about in-suite cooking.
