title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Pismo Pier Reopens During 72nd Annual Pismo Beach Clam Festival|http://www.sfgate.com|https://blog.sfgate.com/storystudio/2018/09/21/pismo-pier-reopens-during-72nd-annual-pismo-beach-clam-festival/||2018-09-21|||By StoryStudio

You see it from up and down the sand in Pismo Beach, you hear about it from locals, one of those iconic landmarks where someone first held hands, spotted a migrating grey whale or even proposed marriage. Dating back to 1881, when the working wharf measured 1,600-feet long, one can only imagine what the Pismo Pier has “seen” over almost 140 years. For as long travelers along Hwy 101 have seen the Pier in the distance surrounded by the glistening Pacific it was the first indication that their holiday was about to begin.

don&#39;t clam up, come on out! Get your tickets to the ““72nd Annual Pismo Beach Clam Festival”

In many ways the story of Pismo Beach itself is reflected in its most famous locale, no more so than today when the recently renovated Pismo Pier will anchor festivals, daily sunset visits and, of course, lovers still strolling to the point of endless possibilities. The grand Pismo Pier reopening will correspond with one of the area’s most famous events, The “72nd Annual Pismo Beach Clam Festival” October 19th-21st.

Over the Clam Festival weekend more than 15,000 people are expected to visit over the three days of music, artwork and all things clam-related. The weekend kicks off the festival with the popular Pismo Beach Wine Walk Friday evening, a fabulous wine tasting event with tickets at only $20 per person.

Esteem Surf Co’s 80 Surf Showdown kicks things off Saturday morning at 8, though no need to set the alarm, the contest runs all day. There’s a parade scheduled for 10 followed by the Pismo Beach Pier Grand Re-Opening & Ribbon Cutting Ceremony at 11:30. The PIERFEST VIP Celebration (ticketed event) starts at noon. PIERFEST will feature a fire-roasted pizza luncheon prepared by Giuseppe’s Cucina Italiana Restaurant. This too marks a re-opening after a devastating fire destroyed the beloved local eatery in 2016. The Beer & Wine stage and all other activities open at 11am on Saturday and Sunday. The Live Music Stage rocks into gear at noon each day.

Every chowder connoisseur won’t want to miss Sunday’s Best Local Clam Chowder Contest at noon on Sunday, especially after trying your hand at the 11 o’clock clam dig. For just $15 you become a tasting judge to determine the 2018 Best Chowder Restaurant! There’s more dancing to be had on the Band Stage and plenty of family entertainment around town, as well as the 21+ Wine & Beer Garden Stage. Clam Festival is the perfect weekend of activities to kick off the beginning of the beautiful fall coastal season and the Grand Re-Opening of the Pismo Pier for all to see and enjoy.

The two-year pier rehabilitation project completely restored the structure for the next century and beyond. Using 382 timber piles and more than 100 steel pipes, the deck now encompasses over 60,000-square feet as well as more than one half mile of guard railing. In fact, some of the materials have not been replaced in 93 years! Though safety concerns were paramount in the decision to launch the $8.7 million project, the new pier also stands out among the finest boardwalk, multi-use piers in the world.

The new Pismo Pier may carry the same footprint as before, but the improvements have enhanced the destination significantly. The Pismo Beach aesthetic is reflected in the new public artworks that will be displayed throughout the year. There are also information boards that highlight the area’s greatest asset, the extraordinary environment. In addition to practical visit information, these displays share the history of the pier as well as identification of the local wildlife.

When you think about it, Pismo Pier is really more like a park than a wharf. The new ‘classic coastal’ light poles add a breezy feeling to sauntering out after sunset. Look for a host of new cultural events to take place in the natural gathering areas, often festooned with colorful flags and banners that hang from the light poles. The Pier returns as the go-to destination for the annual Pumpkins on the Pier as well as the Position A for watching the annual July 4th fireworks. Every day is a great time to fish or picnic on the Pier too. The Pier will also play a prominent role in the 10th annual “Wine, Waves and Beyond” this May 3-5, 2019, a Central Coast classic.

It’s a blast to be on Pismo Beach and Pier over any weekend, but especially when surf’s up. Next year the Pismo Pier will provide an awesome viewing platform for major events like the “Still Frothy Surf Festival” held in late September. A non-profit, the event has raised more than $50,000 for local organizations. The first Saturday in October brings the annual “Surfing for Hope Longboard Contest” and Family Fun Fair to Pismo Beach. All benefits go directly to the Hearst Cancer Research Center (HCRC). The HCRC is located at French Hospital Medical Center in San Luis Obispo. The WSL also arrives in October for the annual Pismo Beach Open. This men’s and women’s QS1000 event is one of the highlights of the California pro surfer season.

Of course, you can check out surfers, sea kayakers and SUP boarders from the pier at any time of year. The local kayak and surf shops not only rent but offer guided tours if you prefer a little guidance on your excursion.

Everyone remembers his or her first stroll on the Pismo Pier, a postcard of Pismo Beach cultural history since the late 19th century. “Clam Fest” is only the first of myriad events that will spread across the pier and add to the luster of this Classic California destination. Talk about a perfect selfie spot, especially when shared with loved ones or friends. Come to the Pismo Pier to renew acquaintances or cast new memories to recall in the future. Check out the Pismo Beach website to begin your own stroll along the pier and step right into your new memories.
