title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Q&A: Oregon Sen. Jeff Merkley pushes for safe banking in the legal marijuana industry|http://www.sfgate.com/cannabis|https://blog.sfgate.com/smellthetruth/2018/09/25/qa-oregon-sen-jeff-merkley-pushes-for-safe-banking-in-the-legal-marijuana-industry/?search=cannabis||2018-09-25|Oscar Pascual||Jeff Merkley is no stranger to cannabis law reform in the America.

The Oregon lawmaker came out as the first U.S. senator to vote for a legal marijuana bill when his state voted to pass Measure 91 in 2014. He has since worked on further marijuana law reforms to provide lawfully-run businesses with federal banking services, and once famously helped an Oregonian cannabis producer pay taxes by personally delivering their $70,000 cash payment to the Department of Revenue.

He now supports the SAFE Banking Act, as well as a landmark bill to legalize cannabis on a federal level.

With a scheduled appearance at the International Cannabis Business Conference in Portland this weekend, Smell the Truth caught up with the senator for his thoughts on the current state of cannabis banking, as well as any possible federal actions to end marijuana prohibition.

Smell the Truth: How are legal cannabis businesses affected by the lack of access to federal banks?

Sen. Jeff Merkley: Denying legally-operating cannabis businesses access to our banking system is unacceptable. Forcing legal businesses to operate in all-cash is an invitation to money laundering and robbery. It’s absurd that cannabis business owners in Oregon have to shuttle around gym bags full of cash to pay their taxes or compensate their employees. This is a public safety issue, and with broad support from Oregonians I will continue to fight for passage of my SAFE Banking Act.

StT: Are there any actions the current presidential administration could take to amend the lack of banking services for these legal businesses?

Merkley: Rather than making it even harder for banks to serve these legal businesses, President Trump and Attorney General Sessions should respect the voters in states that have chosen to allow legal cannabis and end this unnecessary risk for communities across America.

StT: What else can be done by the federal government, or should further legalization come through state actions?

Merkley: Ultimately, the right move is to end federal prohibitions on cannabis, and I’ve sponsored legislation to take that step. It would help alleviate significant problems, not only with the prosecution of nonviolent cannabis crimes — which disproportionately hurts people of color — but also with lack of banking services for legally operating businesses. Let’s pass legislation to place cannabis legalization in the hands of states — exactly where it should be.

Smell The Truth is one of the internet’s most popular destinations for cannabis-related news and culture. This blog is not written or edited by SFGate or the San Francisco Chronicle. The authors are solely responsible for the content.
