title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Reel Local News: Filmmaker Gallegos vies for national cinematography award|http://www.sfgate.com/tv|https://datebook.sfchronicle.com/movies-tv/reel-local-news-filmmaker-gallegos-vies-for-national-cinematography-award||2018-10-11|Pam Grady,Edward Guthmann,Jessica Zack,Mick Lasalle,Peter Hartlaub,Walter Addiego,G. Allen Johnson||This has been a noteworthy month for Bay Area cinematographer and filmmaker Andrés Gallegos, who graduated from San Francisco State University with a master of fine arts in cinema in December. His thesis film, “Shoe Shiner,” made its U.S. debut at the Mill Valley Film Festival and earned Gallegos, 32, an American Society of Cinematographers Student Heritage Awards nomination in the graduate student category.

“What I do for a living and what I want to keep developing is cinematography,” says Gallegos.

Set in his native Talca, Chile, “Shoe Shiner” takes place in 1989 at the end of the country’s 16-year military dictatorship as 11-year-old Diego (Patricio Jara Marabolí) ekes out a living on the streets shining shoes and selling newspapers. Although the film concerns itself with recent Chilean history, it was inspired by stories Gallegos’ grandfather told him of his youth as a shoe shiner.

“To me, this was one of the most enjoyable things when I was a child, just listening to him,” Gallegos says.

Gallegos’ career thus far has taken him to Vietnam, Israel, France and Belgium. At the end of October, he travels to Puerto Rico. In February, he will be in New Zealand. He is also shooting a short in Brooklyn, N.Y.

“Meet new people. Meet new cultures, get to know new stories,” Gallegos says. “That’s the most exciting part for me, getting to know different narratives, getting to know different cultures and having the access.”

SFFilm update: Oscar-winning documentarian Morgan Neville (“20 Feet From Stardom,” “Won’t You Be My Neighbor?”) presents his latest work, “They’ll Love Me When I’m Dead,” about cinema giant Orson Welles’ production of his final film, on opening night of SFFilm’s fourth annual Doc Stories, Nov. 1-4.

“General Magic,” a Silicon Valley startup failure story; “Of Fathers and Sons,” a portrait of Abu Osama, the founder of Syria’s arm of al Qaeda; and “United Skates,” a documentary about the significance of roller skating in the African American community are among the other films in the program.

Doc Stories closes with local filmmaker Dan Krauss’ “5B,” about the San Francisco General Hospital ward that was the first in the United States dedicated to treating AIDS patients in the 1980s. www.sffilm.org

Filipino film fest returns: Renowned director Chito Roño’s drama “Signal Rock,” the Philippines’ foreign-language Oscar entry about a young man caring for his parents on a remote island, opens the second annual Cinematografo International Film Festival, taking place Nov. 8-11 at San Francisco’s Kabuki 8.

Other films in the festival include closing-night film “A Land Imagined,” Singaporean director Siew Hua Yeo’s thriller about the investigation into a missing migrant worker; and a retrospective screening of “The Debut,” Gene Cajayon’s comedy drama about a teen who rejects his heritage, acknowledged as the first Filipino American film shot in the United States.

Films developed and co-produced through the Cinematografo Originals program screen during the festival, including H.P. Mendoza’s “Bitter Melon,” along with sneak previews of Loy Arcenas’ “Mirador” and Francis dela Torre’s “The Trade.” https://cinematografofilmfestival.com/

Film Clips:

•“Life and Nothing More,” the California Film Institute’s second film distributed under its CFI Releasing arm, opens at Bay Area theaters on Friday, Oct. 26. Spanish director Antonio Méndez Esparza’s portrait of an African American Family in Florida won the 2017 John Cassavetes Award at this year’s Film Independent Spirit Awards.

•“Prairie Trilogy,” three short films made between 1978 and 1989 by San Francisco filmmakers John Hanson and Rob Nilsson about 97-year-old North Dakota poet and onetime labor organizer Henry Martinson, screens at the Roxie on Wednesday and Thursday, Oct. 24 and 25. Nilsson will participate in Q&As at both screenings. www.roxie.com

•“The Mukuru Art Boyz” screens Sunday, Oct. 21, at the United Nations Association Film Festival in Palo Alto. A.R. Pashayan’s film recent won the best documentary short prize at the London Independent Film Awards. http://www.unaff.org
