title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
San Jose Earthquakes name Matias Almeyda new head coach|http://www.sfgate.com/quakes|https://blog.sfgate.com/soccer/2018/10/08/san-jose-earthquakes-name-matias-almeyda-new-head-coach/||2018-10-08|Douglas Zimmerman||Looking for an experienced hand to start their rebuild, the San Jose Earthquakes announced the hiring of Matias Almeyda as the new head coach on Monday.

Almeyda was recently the coach of Mexican soccer league powerhouse Chivas de Guadalajara and led the club to the 2018 CONCACAF Champions League title.

“Matias came here because he welcomes the challenge of helping our organization open a new chapter after a grueling season,” said Earthquakes general manager Jesse Fioranell. “He had several other opportunities available to him from clubs and national teams around the world but made it very clear the Earthquakes were the one he wanted to lead.”

The former Argentian international played at the top level of the profession with clubs Inter Milan, Lazio and Sevilla in Italy and Spain. He ended his playing career in 2011 on a River Plate team, one of the most storied clubs in Argentina, that was relegated from the top division. He became its head coach and was responsible for leading the club back to the Argentia Primera Division after one season.

He then moved on and had success at Argentia’s Club Atletico Banfield. His work there parlayed him to a job as head coach for Chivas Guadalajara in 2015.

At Chivas, Almeyda had success with multiple cup titles and won the 2017 Liga MX Championship. It was the first league title for the team in over 20 years. He apparently left the club after it announced it was cutting its player budget.

Almeyda will have a lot of work in store for him to rebuild a team that is mired in the basement of the MLS. But the new head coach said he is looking forward to the challenge.

“Like everywhere I have been, my goal here is to bring the entire club together and build a strong team that has a defined style of play and finds success,” said Almeyda after the announcement. “We want the fans to identify with the team and become like another player for us.”

“In my life, I have always moved to take on new challenges in a place that I feel wanted and respected and that is why I came here,” he added.

LAST GAME: Wondo scores, but Red Bulls pressure too much for SJ Earthquakes

The club announced that interim Head Coach Steve Ralston will lead the Quakes in their final two games of this season before Almeyda takes the reigns.
