title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
San Francisco Must-Try Establishments|http://sfinsider.sfgate.com|https://sfinsider.sfgate.com/breakfast-pizza-san-francisco-must-try-establishments-2/#comments||2018-09-07|Sf Insider||Sometimes it’s difficult to choose between breakfast or lunch options at brunch. Those who want a taste of both should opt for the breakfast pizza. These pizzas combine traditional pizza ingredients with breakfast foods, which are frequently topped with a perfectly runny egg. The best breakfast pizzas in San Francisco keep it simple and flavorful to provide the ideal pie early in the day.

Breakfast Pizza at Gioia Pizzeria

Gioia Pizzeria slings all sorts of pizzas from pepperoni to butternut squash throughout lunch and dinner, but few come close to its breakfast pizza served at brunch. The thin crust East Coast-style pizza is topped with Mariquita cherry tomatoes, mozzarella, provolone, garlic, red onion, five strips of crisp Nueske bacon, chili flakes, gremolata and two fried eggs. A husband and wife team with a passion for local and seasonal produce runs the Upper Polk pizzeria where the breakfast pizza is available Saturdays and Sundays on the brunch menu.

Breakfast Pizza With Smoked Ham, Fontina and Eggs at Rose’s Cafe

The Cow Hollow neighborhood is home to Rose’s Cafe and one of San Francisco’s tastiest breakfast pizzas. The crisp and bubbly crust is topped with smoked Caggiano ham, fontina cheese and two of Judy’s organic eggs fried to perfection and placed in the middle so the yolk creates a rich sauce that covers the pie. Those who aren’t fans of ham and fontina can opt to top any of Rose’s other brunch pizzas with an organic egg, such as the mushrooms, fresh ricotta and thyme pizza or the pork sausage, red onions and pecorino cheese pizza.

House-made Chorizo, Sunny Eggs and Cilantro Pizza at Starbelly

Those who like spicy food in the morning should make their way to Starbelly in the Castro District. This casual restaurant serves a breakfast pizza that uses a naturally leavened sourdough to make its crust. The chef then tops the crisp pizza with a light tomato sauce, house-made chorizo, two sunny-side-up eggs and a few sprigs of fresh cilantro for a truly Californian yet minimalist pizza.

Bacon, Tomato, Egg and Dandelion Greens Pizza at Casey’s Pizza

Casey’s Pizza was San Francisco’s first pizza truck up until September 2017, when owner Casey Crynes moved the operation to a brick-and-mortar pizzeria in Mission Bay. Casey’s breakfast pie includes cherry tomatoes, aged mozzarella, fior di latte, red onion, three free-range organic sunny-side-up eggs, dandelion greens and Grana Padano cheese.

San Francisco visitors don’t need to decide between breakfast and lunch foods. These eateries offer breakfast pizza options to help hungry travelers start their days off with full stomachs.
