title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Sea-to-Sky Corridor Spans Coastal Salish Culture|http://www.sfgate.com/travel|http://blog.sfgate.com/storystudio/2016/09/28/sea-to-sky-corridor-spans-coastal-salish-culture/||2016-09-28|||By StoryStudio

























































































Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain Image 1 of / 23 Caption Close Image 2 of 23 Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain Image 3 of 23 Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain Image 4 of 23 Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain Image 5 of 23 Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain Image 6 of 23 Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain Image 7 of 23 Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain Image 8 of 23 Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain Image 9 of 23 Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain Image 10 of 23 Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain Image 11 of 23 Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain Image 12 of 23 Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain Image 13 of 23 Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain Image 14 of 23 Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain Image 15 of 23 Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain Image 16 of 23 Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain Image 17 of 23 Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain Image 18 of 23 Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain Image 19 of 23 Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain Image 20 of 23 Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain Image 21 of 23 Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain Image 22 of 23 Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain Image 23 of 23 Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain Sea-to-Sky Corridor Spans Coastal Salish Culture 1 / 23 Back to Gallery

We associate the Sea-to-Sky Corridor with otherworldly vistas and exceptional adventures. Less known is the Sea to Sky Cultural Journey, a trip that explores spectacular art, pioneer history and First Nations heritage. From Siwash Rock to Lillooet Lake, the informed traveler discovers history, art, and an ongoing conversation between the land and its people. Blend this narrative with our personal footprints upon Stawamus Chief or Mount Currie, and we enter full immersion within sea and sky.

The Sea-to-Sky Highway begins for many of us in Horseshoe Bay, the location of the first Sea-to-Sky cultural kiosk and gateway to Howe Sound and the Sunshine Coast. The Salish cultural weaving begins, however, off Vancouver’s Stanley Park at Siwash Rock. Here, a Squamish fisherman was transformed into Siwash Rock by Xaays, the “transformer,” to honor his selfless role in fatherhood.

Transformation is a common occurrence throughout Squamish history and the landscape. Two boulders visible off Horseshoe Bay originated as slingshots used by two giants engaged in battle between Eagle Harbor and Lighthouse Park. Gentler transformations are evident further north in Lions Bay, where the Lions ridge of the Coast Mountains reveals a Squamish chief’s two transformed daughters laying in granite repose.

Tips for flying to YVR YVR is an easy to negotiate airport in Richmond, B.C.

There are numerous companies that shuttle passengers between YVR and Whistler. Consider a shuttle if you plan to remain in Whistler proper throughout your stay.

Renting a car allows flexibility to stop at significant landmarks.

The Fairmont Vancouver Airport Hotel is often touted as the world’s premier airport hotel.

Tunnel Point provides more insight into the animistic spirituality of the region. Here we view a broad swath encompassing Gambler, Anvil, and other Howe Sound islands, home to storied serpents and perhaps the most iconic creature of the Salish coastline: Sasquatch. Porteau Cove, located between Tunnel Point and Britannia Beach, a historical sturgeon fishery, is the site of one of oldest archeological sites on the entire Northwest coast.

Past travelers used the decrepit Britannia Mine as a reminder to search for mountain goats beyond the giant dump truck. Improvements made in 2010 included repairing all those broken windows in Mill #3, adding a mine train interpretive experience, and creating several galleries exploring the town’s former copper mining culture.

Shipments of copper and other natural resources depended upon the railroad. Therefore, it’s not surprising to find the West Coast Railway Heritage Park, a further escape into 19th-century colonial British Columbia. Home to Western Canada’s largest collection of rolling stock (it has over 90 cars!), any visit to the park should include a ride on the 3 km miniature railroad.







We may miss the elusive mountain goats that inhabit the surrounding peaks or even majestic Shannon Falls, which lies hidden from many angles behind the conifer screen, but no one has ever driven past Stawamus Chief without taking pause. The three-peaked, 2,303-ft monolith spans more than one square mile.

Climb the Squamish Chief, the largest granite face north of Yosemite, or scamper up the well-maintained backside trails. A two-headed serpent named Sínulhk-ay’ slithered up this mountain to establish the earliest trail. Modern visitors often utilize the Sea-to-Sky Gondola for great views, followed by a gradual hike down. Adjacent Shannon Falls provided the primary training grounds for Squamish medicine.

The Squamish tell us the sun comes to earth in the form of an eagle, which may explain why we find one of the largest concentrations of bald eagles during the (often sun-free) dead of winter in nearby Brackendale. In 1994, 3,769 eagles were counted in one day. Floats convey us beneath the roosting snags and over Class I and II riffles along the Squamish River. Check in with Squamish Adventure Centre on the northern outskirts of town for floats, biking, hiking, and about two dozen other wilderness adventures.

The Sea-to-Sky Corridor provides some of the closest access in the world to alpha predators such as cougars, grizzlies, and wolves. All three species, as well as wolverines, elk, and deer, occupy the Tantalus Range and Brandywine region in healthy numbers. Brandywine is also home to the Great Thunderbird, who returns frequently to roost on Black Tusk Mountain, where the Squamish elders have always conducted spiritual training for their nation.

Though geographically significant as a trading center to Squamish and Lil’Wat Nations, visitors wondered for years if North America’s premier ski resort would evolve into a cultural destination. The Squamish Lil’wat Cultural Centre answered that question

The architecturally stunning Squamish Lil’wat Cultural Centre was the first ever center dedicated to local First Nations history. The Cultural Centre offers an interactive experience of the Lil’Wat Istken and Squamish Longhouse, an interpretive forest walk, and many other insightful exhibits.

Whistler added a second cultural landmark in January when the Audain Art Museum debuted. The permanent art collection includes perhaps the largest collection of 19th-century Northwest Coast masks, a broad range of Emily Carr paintings, and an excellent assortment from the Vancouver School photography movement. Like the Squamish Lil’Wat Cultural Centre, the impressively designed Audain displays an outstanding series of touring art exhibitions.

Arts Whistler adds color to the 2016 fall season with immersive aesthetic experience, music and festivals. Fall for Arts schedules also turns heads with the Whistler Writer’s Festival, ArtWalk 2016, Art & Culture Tours and the Whistler Film Festival, among many others.

The Sea-to-Sky Cultural Journey doesn’t end in Whistler. The First Nations people hunted so successfully around Nairn Falls that several of their heroic hunters were transformed into the peaks that run along Mount Currie. The spirit of the region’s greatest hunter and fisher, the brown grizzly bear, is represented in Lil’wat pictographs north of Pemberton.

The rich agricultural land first lured settlers to the Pemberton Valley in the 1880s. The railroad arrived in 1914, propelled by the Fraser Valley Gold Rush. The farmers outlasted the claim jumpers, and Pemberton is now one of the best-known agricultural areas in the province. The seasonal Pemberton Museum and Archives Society provides education about the many settlement phases as well as details about the Lil’Wat First Nations and Salish culture.

The Sea-to-Sky Highway’s position among the finest byways in the world is well deserved. When we grab a paddle, travel a trail, or stake a fall line, unparalleled adventure awaits. However, when we pause long enough to listen to the whispers at historic Squamish medicine circles or retrace the steps of families depicted in “unity” pictographs, The Sea to Sky Cultural Journey opens as broadly as the arms of the Howe Sound Giants before us.
