title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Sea-to-Sky Corridor Enriches Visitors with Diverse Cultural Institutions|http://www.sfgate.com/travel|http://blog.sfgate.com/storystudio/2016/10/13/sea-to-sky-corridor-enriches-visitors-with-diverse-cultural-institutions/||2016-10-13|||By StoryStudio









































Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain / © 2016 Andrew Strain Image 1 of / 11 Caption Close Image 2 of 11 Pemberton Museum. Pemberton Museum. Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain / © 2016 Andrew Strain Image 3 of 11 Pemberton Museum. Pemberton Museum. Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain / © 2016 Andrew Strain Image 4 of 11 Britannia Mine Museum. Britannia Mine Museum. Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain / © 2016 Andrew Strain Image 5 of 11 Mining at the Britannia Mine Museum. Mining at the Britannia Mine Museum. Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain / © 2016 Andrew Strain Image 6 of 11 West Coast Railway Heritage Park. West Coast Railway Heritage Park. Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain / © 2016 Andrew Strain Image 7 of 11 West Coast Railway Heritage Park. West Coast Railway Heritage Park. Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain / © 2016 Andrew Strain Image 8 of 11 West Coast Railway Heritage Park. West Coast Railway Heritage Park. Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain / © 2016 Andrew Strain Image 9 of 11 Audain Art Museum. Audain Art Museum. Photo: Tourism Whistler/ Justa Jeskova / © Justa Jeskova Photography Image 10 of 11 Squamish Lil’Wat Cultural Centre. Squamish Lil’Wat Cultural Centre. Photo: Mike Crane / Tourism Whistler / MIKE CRANE Image 11 of 11 Squamish Lil’Wat Cultural Centre. Squamish Lil’Wat Cultural Centre. Photo: Mike Crane / Tourism Whistler / MIKE CRANE Sea-to-Sky Corridor Enriches Visitors with Diverse Cultural Institutions 1 / 11 Back to Gallery

The Sea-to-Sky Highway offers access to so much more than gorgeous views and some of the world’s greatest adventure habitats. This Vancouver-to-Pemberton journey is also rich in cultural landmarks and attractions.. Whistler’s new Audain Art Museum has elevated the Sea-to-Sky Cultural Journey to new heights, featuring Canadian artistic icons and bringing prestigious exhibitions from around the world to North America’s premier four-season resort. The Audain is just one of several must-visit cultural institutions on the spectacular Sea-to-Sky Corridor.

Long touted as one of the world’s premier outdoor recreation resorts, Whistler became a major cultural destination in 2008 when the Skwxwú7mesh Lil’wat7úl (Squamish Lil’wat) Cultural Centre opened. The first center of its kind dedicated exclusively to the history and culture of local First Nations, the success of the center has inspired numerous other First Nations to create their own cultural centers across Canada.

Mild weather, a 12-month salmon buffet, and a natural geographical barrier blocking the more aggressive people to the east meant the indigenous Salish people lived a lifestyle of abundance unequaled on this continent. Leisure time in a permanent home site translated into elaborate gatherings (the “potlatch”) and magnificent, if labor-intensive, artwork. Inside the Centre, carvings and weavings adorn the walls and dugouts display the nuances of different coastal fishermen and hunters.

Each art piece in the permanent collection tells the living story of the people who have occupied this land since time began. The Great Hall’s Salish hunting canoe, measuring 40 feet and carved from a single cedar tree, is still paddled on an ocean voyage every year to honor its spirit. The grand weavings are made from the hair of mountain goats collected from trees the goats have rubbed against to shed their winter coats. Every artifact and artwork in the permanent collection and the provocative touring exhibitions share a magnificent story of living within this region in unity with the surrounding environment.

This narrative inspires us when we traverse the Whistler-Blackcomb ski trails, ride the 25-mile Whistler Valley Trail, or hike in Mt. Garibaldi and other provincial parks. Like the best museums, the Squamish Lil’wat Cultural Centre hasn’t stopped growing, having added a Lil’wat Istken, Squamish Longhouse, and interpretive forest walk.

Whistler’s aesthetic offerings in the form of art walks, gallery openings, and Fall for Arts programming has continued to evolve, but the opening of the Audain Art Museum is nothing short of revolutionary. Designed by the award-inning Patkau Architects, the museum slips seamlessly into its arboreal surroundings. A grooved timber ceiling guides visitors into the galleries as floor-to-ceilings allow natural light to embrace the spacious space.

The Audain’s permanent collection illuminates the illustrious artistic history of Canada and British Columbia, housing one of the world’s leading collections of indigenous masks, an outstanding collection of realist Emily Carr’s paintings, and prints from the Vancouver School of photographers, known for their conceptual images of the Pacific Northwest.







Just minutes from ski lifts and the village center, the Audain has instantly become an important host of visiting exhibits, including the works of masters such as Gainsborough, Sargent, and Turner. As a new museum, the Audain is designed to gently educate and boldly inspire visitors by offering daily docent-led surveys and presenting work that complements the essence of the wilderness and its people. No other alpine resort offers an artistic and historical combination similar to the Squamish-Lil’wat Cultural Centre and the Audain Art Museum.

If you rent a car, take the time to visit the Britannia Mine Museum, located ten minutes south of Squamish—you can’t miss the giant yellow dump truck—to enjoy an interactive exploration into the inner workings of British Columbia’s once-booming copper and mineral industry. The mine has always given tours, but the 2010 improvements, including an underground interpretive train tour, increased this National Historic Site’s appeal, doubling the number of annual visitors to over 70,000.

In our era of steampunk aesthetics, the Britannia Mine is the real deal since it was once responsible for the highest levels of copper production in the British Empire. Stepping into the multilayered Mill 3 allows us to peek inside one of these outrageously cool structures and see what the inside really looks like, from the rows of layered windows to the ore belts, working lime tank, and 100-step stairway that leads to the top.

The 1908 Machine Shop is a must-visit location for our DIY generation. The campus architecture, including several permanent and rotating exhibitions, is also worth checking out. Kids and adultscan pan for gold, check out documentary films about British Columbia’s mining era, and learn about the period when 60,000 people lived here in the company town.

The dip into Western Canada’s history continues inside the 12-acre West Coast Railway Heritage Park, a mid-20th century railway center and replica town that includes a working blacksmith forge and printing press among other hands-on attractions. Though the railroad didn’t arrive in this region until 1956, many of the 90 pieces of rolling stock, the second largest collection in Canada, date back to the 19th century, including a rare Royal Hudson steam train and the only remaining railway post office car.

When in Whistler, consider heading to Pemberton, about a 25-minute drive north, one of British Columbia’s least-known communities that has recently emerged as a foodie and arts destination for those in the know. The Pemberton Museum adds the pioneer perspective to the Sea-to-Sky’s cultural timeline. The Pemberton Museum displays key artifacts from the indigenous Lil’wat First Nation and detailed materials from the 1880s European settlement. Open seasonally, one departs the Pemberton Museum with respect for First Nations self-sufficiency and an understanding of how this grew into an agricultural community unlike almost anywhere else in British Columbia.

The Sea-to-Sky Cultural Journey’s museums and cultural centers present windows into epochs of the human and wilderness experience. Taken together, they provide unprecedented enrichment, immersing their visitors in what it means to live in or visit this vast, varied landscape.
