title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
SF singer-songwriter Debbie Neigher take music in new direction as Lapel|http://www.sfgate.com/music|https://datebook.sfchronicle.com/music/sf-singer-songwriter-debbie-neigher-take-music-in-new-direction-as-lapel||2018-10-12|Ryan Kost,Joshua Kosman,Chronicle Staff,Mariecar Mendoza,Aidin Vaziri||After the opening act, the room began to swell. People pushed right to the front of the stage, all awash in the glow of soft pink and blue lights. Not long after, Debbie Neigher stepped out from a side room and the applause began, loud and long.

Neigher looked out, her smile as wide as her eyes, light catching the glitter on her face. She didn’t say a word; she just started singing.

“We take the asthmatic elevator to the top of the motel/ We stay up on the rooftop living off cheap champagne and caramels/ And I’m not coming down.” The song, “Snow Globes,” picks up right around then, the drums get louder, more immediate.

Neigher was into it.

This performance, on Thursday, Oct. 11, at San Francisco’s Cafe du Nord, doubled as an album release for Neigher. She’s been in the Bay Area music scene for a decade, but that night she was introducing “Periphery,” her debut album released in September under the moniker Lapel, a new project and a new direction for her. If she was nervous, she didn’t look it. She just looked at home.

A couple weeks earlier, sipping coffee on Valencia Street, she explained why that might be.

“It feels so much more like the music I’m supposed to be making,” she said.

Two things stand out about Neigher when you first meet her. First, she seems very, very — almost intimidatingly — cool. There are the dark-lined eyes and the small nose ring. She’s a person with bangs who can actually pull off bangs. The night of the show she was wearing a retro orange dress with a cape and clear plastic heels.

Second, she doesn’t seem to be aware of the first fact at all. She’s humble, self-effacing, incredibly earnest.

Neigher has been making music since she was about 13 or 14. At age 31, that means she’s been making music for more than half her life. When she started, a lot of piano-heavy music was making the rounds. Vanessa Carlton road a piano through traffic in a music video; Regina Spektor, Fiona Apple, Alicia Keys, they were all filling their pop songs with rich, heavy keys.

Listening to the music she’s put out over the years under her name — just Debbie Neigher — those artists’ influence, the whole feeling of early aughts nostalgia, stands out. And for a long while, Neigher was at home with that sound. But over the past couple years, it started to feel weird, like an itchy wool sweater or too-tight pants.

“I just felt like I wasn’t making music that compelled or excited or moved me,” she said.

So she started writing and creating in a different way. “What would I actually want to go see live? Who would I want to be a fan of? I want to move. I want there to be grooves and beats.”

She also made a rule for herself as she started to craft Lapel: no more piano.

“It was kind of taking up the entire frame of the photo of the songs,” she said. If she “scooped it out,” there was so much room for other things.

Lapel still sounds like Neigher, and her attention to songwriting remains. She manages to talk about death (“The day you died my heart cracked wide open/ The yolk’s been spilling everywhere/ There, I’ve gone and done it all again/ I’ve spent another song on you”); women’s rights (“You feel purpose with a kid on your hips/ I feel purpose with this on my lips”); even police brutality (“You take one look at me and you assume/ You have your uniform and I have mine/ What does yours get you this time?”) in ways that feel natural and right.

“It’s a really delicate dance because 99 percent of the time it comes out awful and trite,” she said.

And even though the piano is gone, her songs are full of sound. The night of her album release party at Cafe du Nord, the stage was occasionally packed with instrumentalists.

But Lapel — the name comes from Margaret Trudeau, a former first lady of Canada: “I want to be more than a rose in my husband’s lapel” — is also very much its own thing.

Liam McCormick has known Neigher for many years. She’d occasionally sing and play in his band, the Family Crest. McCormick remembers a night about a year ago when he and Neigher had gotten together to share some of their new music. She played him the stuff she’d been working on as Lapel.

“My head exploded when I heard her record,” he said.

He knew that she’d been experimenting with synthesizers, and it’s not that he doubted her ability — “She’s extremely talented,” he said, “but it was still hard to imagine her moving from the piano to that starker space. It worked. Effortlessly.

“I think it’s happened extremely organically,” he said. “She clearly spent a lot of time thinking about the production.”

The one through line, as McCormick sees it, is Neigher’s voice, it “stands out to me more than anything.”

That was true the night of the show, too. No matter how many people she’d invited on stage, Neigher’s voice cut cleanly through it all. She’s able to run through a series of notes with such an ease and speed that they all run together. (McCormick called it a “glissando.”)

Neigher hardly spoke onstage that night. There were a few words here and there, mostly thank yous — to her producer (Beau Sorenson) to the sound tech, to the crowd.

Instead, she just sang as Lapel, dancing to her own music, happy to let it speak for itself.
