title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
State Lines: A poem by Anna Journey|http://www.sfgate.com/books|https://datebook.sfchronicle.com/books/state-lines-a-poem-by-anna-journey||2018-10-17|David Roderick,J.C. Hallman,Ryan Kost,John Mcmurtrie,Chronicle Staff Report,Brandon Yu||Sylvia Plath subscribed to Albert Einstein’s notion that “imagination is more important than knowledge.” I suspect that Anna Journey does, too. Her poems almost always feature dream logic or at least a daring whimsicality. This poem’s wild, long title helps direct the reader by clarifying the poem’s situation. The speaker has moved to California but hasn’t quite adjusted to her new circumstance. Manifestations of swampland Texas, with its “stubbed javelinas,” roadhouses and date palms, haunt her. It’s hard to glean the meaning of the Jell-O wrestling in the poem, which seems like a fun-house mirror of a memory. One thing is clear: Journey still pines away for Texas, a source of her creative power.

One Year After My Move to California, I Jell-O Wrestle My Texan Past in a Dream

You visit me with your pockets filled with swampwater, the sunflowers

husked and unshaved — an anniversary bouquet

of faces which rise, with you and the temperature,

to strangers. I don’t want to know

whose names now fold

into our old mailbox on Ridgewood. I could

only walk the neighborhood at night

when the heat sank to the eighties. I could almost

love the stubbled javelinas for charging us once

as we stayed too late at the alligator preserve. We must’ve

turned to a stand of live oaks in the twilight,

startled the blind herd as we breathed. In the dream

you hold a steel bowl of green Jell-O, ask if I remember

the roadhouse off I-59. The one that advertised women in bikinis

who’d slide into a rink to wrestle each other smeared

in gelatin. I told you — as we drove by the bar — which ghosts

Jell-O holds in its shiver: pig skin, ground bones, bovine hide.

I’d slick myself down to a glimmer

here in the space of this dream

where the blades of the date palms serrate and slit the sky

so I might escape. So I’d glow

green in my second skin. I’d slip from the rink’s

loose ropes, from my marrow-scrubbed double in the bikini

who now shrinks to a crouch, from my past and its

ground-up dead, which I’ve simmered and stirred all year

to arrive here: their faces sealed as they fade

to translucence, smooth and finally cooled.

From “The Atheist Wore Goat Silk,” by Anna Journey. Published by LSU Press. Copyright © 2017.

Anna Journey is the author of the essay collection “An Arrangement of Skin” and three books of poems, including “The Atheist Wore Goat Silk.” She is an assistant professor of English at the University of Southern California.

David Roderick is the author of the poetry collections “Blue Colonial” and “The Americans.” He is co-founder of Left Margin Lit: A Home for the Literary Arts, in Berkeley.
