title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Super-Crafty Halloween Contest winners are here!|http://blog.sfgate.com|http://blog.sfgate.com/parenting/2015/11/03/super-crafty-halloween-contest-winners-are-here/||2015-11-03|Peter Hartlaub||First of all, let’s agree that the word “winners” is misused here. Because when people are taking the time, effort and historical research to dress their kids up like Hunter S. Thompson and Frida Kahlo, there are no losers.

But there must be winners, because this is the internet and people need something to click on that was different than the thing they clicked on last week. Please scroll below and behold the victors for this year’s Super-Crafty Halloween Costume Contest.

Some context if you haven’t scrolled down yet. This is the ninth year of the contest, which was started to celebrate the local efforts of homemade costumes for children. We received more than 300 entries in 2015, and I picked 45 finalists. My sincere apologies to those who I didn’t respond to personally (which is almost everyone) and above all to those who sent in a photo that didn’t get chosen. This is a one-man show which I must squeeze into my other San Francisco Chronicle duties. You’re all winners. Except the adults who didn’t read a single rule, and sent photos of themselves in store-bought costumes.

More apologies and information about the contest can be seen here. After years of promising things that I sometimes don’t deliver, there are no prizes this year. (If you won the contest in 2007 and I owe you lunch and a tour of the newsroom, we can still try to do that.)

Congratulations to this year’s winners!

ANNE GEDDES AWARD FOR CALENDAR-READY BABY POSING WHILE CELEBRATING AN EARLY 20TH CENTURY PAINTER

What amazed me the most about this entry was not how much the baby looks like Frida Kahlo. It’s that when you look into her eyes, the child is clearly convinced she is Frida Kahlo.

Dressing up a baby is really it’s own category. You need a costume that’s comfortable, is easy to tote, preferably props the baby up somehow and evokes a historical figure while utilizing the infant’s natural old soul look. Mother Eva scores on every front. Superb costuming here.

.

OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENT IN USE OF A PINK BATHROBE AND ROLLERS ON AN 18-MONTH-OLD

Mother Erica Weaver told us that her daughter “loves cats, and loves to put these velcro rollers in her hair all the time so I decided what better costume for her than the crazy cat lady!”

We admire the relatively simple costuming, and Erica’s daughter gets bonus points for completely selling this costume. I mean, look at the photo. It looks like she’s heading to the refrigerator to refill her Riunite on Ice. Next year we expect her in the winner’s circle again as Mrs. Furley from “Three’s Company.”

.

THE “CHILDREN WAKE UP … HOLD YOUR MISTAKE UP” AWARD FOR ACHIEVEMENT IN CONCERT-QUALITY HALLOWEEN LIGHT EFFECTS

This may be the most San Francisco costume in history. The boy saw “Mirror Man” with his parents at an Arcade Fire concert, the costume was executed over two months and 75 hours, and everyone no doubt spent the entirety of Halloween night explaining that his costume wasn’t a disco ball.

Bonus #1: The kid loved the costume so much, he’s worn it two years in a row. Bonus #2: Mom Michelle W. reports that the 10-year-old sounds like wind chimes when he walks.

Beautiful costume that was worth the effort. We hope he got all the candy.

.

SPECIAL CITATION FOR REALIZING THE COMPLETELY RANDOM WISH OF A CARB-LOVING 4-YEAR-OLD

How many Halloween costumers start with a kid who wants to be something weird, and then steer the child toward a “cool” costume that will show well on Facebook and Pinterest?

Not the parents of 4-year-old Will. He proudly declared that “I want to be a tortilla and cheese,” and he walked out of the house on Halloween as the best damn tortilla and cheese his neighborhood has ever seen.

Good job, parents.

.

* * * READERS CHOICE AWARD * * *

Mother Andrea writes: “My 2.5 year old daughter, who has a rare chromosomal condition called Pitt Hopkins Syndrome, channeling RBG beautifully …”

Topical, sweet and well-executed. I hope Ruth Bader Ginsburg sees this, and appreciates the good company she’s in.

.

* * * WINNER * * *

Honestly, I try to avoid giving the highest award to controversial costumes, and some readers were “concerned” that children so young had apparently watched and were modeling characters from an R Rated movie.

Then I thought about myself, and how stoked I would be if my parents suddenly came up with a photo of me and my sister dressed as Sonny Corleone and Nurse Ratched, or Ripley from “Alien” and the shark from “Jaws.” The costumes are amazing, the kids look like they’re having a blast and “Mad Max: Fury Road” is in my opinion a cinematic classic. I’m much more stressed about the future of a brother and sister dressed up as Caillou and Strawberry Shortcake than Furiosa and Nux.

“You will arrive at the gates of the Super-Crafty Costume Contest, shiny and chrome!”

Winner.

PETER HARTLAUB is the pop culture critic at the San Francisco Chronicle and founder/editor of The Poop. He takes requests. Contact him at phartlaub@sfchronicle.com. Follow him on Twitter at www.twitter.com/peterhartlaub.
