title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Temp jobs can help restart your career|http://www.sfgate.com|https://blog.sfgate.com/gettowork/2018/10/05/temp-jobs-can-help-restart-your-career/||2018-10-05|Paula Santilli||With the Holidays fast approaching, it’s a good time to consider taking a temp job for numerous reasons, one of which is to help a stalled job search. The opportunities to work part-time increase during the Holidays when more help is needed and if you are between jobs or just wanting to entertain a new career move, temp jobs can be a good option.

Underestimating the value of a temp job could be a mistake, you could overlook the benefits of meeting new people and getting back in the workforce. Going back to work can lift you out of a mundane routine and give you the chance to experience a different work environment while adding new skills to your background.

Hiring decision makers are always in need of good employees who are reliable and demonstrate a team mentality. Standing out as a potential hire is easier than you might realize, it starts with good communication and a desire to learn.

The advantage you have with a temp position is the ability to build relationships quickly while observing the needs of the employer. The key is to make sure you communicate your interests to the employer even if you were hired in a temp position.

You never know when an opportunity for full-time employment will surface, if it does you have the experience and results for a quick hire. If you were placed by a staffing agency reciprocate professional manners by keeping them informed of your interest as well.

Here are some ways to make a strong impression during a temp job that could lead to a full-time position. Use this as a check list to help you turn temp opportunities into good career moves.

Hiring decision makers look for employees that are reliable and have a good work ethic. Employees that are focused on working on helping their boss succeed will always stand out from those who perform halfheartedly.

Bring a team mentality with you every day and pitch in where needed even if the tasks assigned were unexpected. Think in terms of what’s good for the team.

Know the employer’s culture. The number one factor that influences hiring decisions is how well you understand and match the work culture.

Demonstrate excellent customer service on a consistent basis even when no one is looking.

Be flexible and willing to help if a team member calls in sick or you are needed for last minute changes.

Take the time to understand the employer’s business, know their products and services. Be a quick learner who easily picks up on the processes and procedures of conducting business.

Show enthusiasm and a good attitude.

Broaden your networking skills by meeting new people, a temp job gives you a reason to interact in a natural way.

Even though you are working in a temporary position it helps to think like a full-time employee. Demonstrating a caring attitude towards making your manager and department successful will send a powerful message.

How did a temp job help you restart your career?
