title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
The Sea-to-Sky Corridor: Gateway to an Art Movement|http://www.sfgate.com/travel|http://blog.sfgate.com/storystudio/2016/10/13/the-sea-to-sky-corridor-gateway-to-an-art-movement/||2016-10-13|||By StoryStudio





















Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain / © 2016 Andrew Strain Image 1 of / 6 Caption Close Image 2 of 6 Enjoying local art at ArtWalk. Enjoying local art at ArtWalk. Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain / © 2016 Andrew Strain Image 3 of 6 Enjoying art at the Adele Campbell Gallery. Enjoying art at the Adele Campbell Gallery. Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain / © 2016 Andrew Strain Image 4 of 6 Jeri by James Stewart. Jeri by James Stewart. Photo: Tourism Whistler/Andrew Strain / © 2016 Andrew Strain Image 5 of 6 Local artist painting. Local artist painting. Photo: Tourism Whistler/Justa Jeskova / © Justa Jeskova Photography Image 6 of 6 The Plaza Gallery in Whistler. The Plaza Gallery in Whistler. Photo: Tourism Whistler/Justa Jeskova / © Justa Jeskova Photography The Sea-to-Sky Corridor: Gateway to an Art Movement 1 / 6 Back to Gallery

The galleries have followed the landscape in Whistler, showing an impressive roster of artists with works that, like the Black Tusk or Mt. Garibaldi, take our breath away. The arrival of the Squamish-Lil’wat Cultural Center in 2008 and Audain Art Museum in 2016 have raised local arts awareness and appreciation even further.

Public art projects appear like powder days, and the galleries keep growing in number and reputation. Take some time for the local arts scene next time you’re traveling the Sea-to-Sky Corridor. You’ll like what you see.

As ubiquitous as these majestic birds of prey may be for us Northwesterners, watching thousands of bald eagles perch above the Squamish and Cheakamus Rivers in Brackendale Eagles Provincial Park still blows us away. That said, visiting the Brackendale Art Gallery is worth the stop any time of year. Open on weekends, the gallery features rotating exhibits from local artists, as well as live theater, concerts, and artistic workshops. But the paint really starts flying in January and February during the Brackendale Winter Eagle Festival, when folks arrive at the gallery for warm house-made soups and a spot around the fire to share stories of eagles..

Impressive numbers of artists and galleries have migrated to Whistler as well, elevating the four-season resort’s aesthetic status to match its globally acclaimed recreation. The signs of a maturing arts scene are everywhere. More than a dozen art galleries now dot the village stroll. Entering its fourth decade, Arts Whistler also has the Gallery at Maury Young Arts Centre to guarantee talented local artists will always have an outlet to display their work.

Diverse media and genres provide additional indicators of a more sophisticated arts space. Realism, the stock and trade of many resort galleries, is being joined by artists working in abstract and other contemporary styles. Naturally, the opening of the Audain Art Museum will draw more art lovers to Whistler and educate local residents about British Columbian artists such as Emily Carr and international artists such as Diego Rivera and Salvador Dali, both displayed in 2016 exhibitions.

Whistler’s art galleries are sprinkled throughout the village, each contributing to the dynamic Whistler art scene in its own particular style. The Adele Campbell Fine Arts Galleries features numerous well-regarded artists who specialize in regional subject matter and landscape. The gallery also sponsors an annual Art of Winter Group Exhibition and a calendar of vibrant and often provocative solo exhibitions.

The Black Tusk Gallery exhibits exceptional Northwest coast native art representative of Salish culture such as handwoven baskets, silver work, totems, and masks. The Crystal Lodge Art Gallery exhibits contemporary art that depicts the West Coast style. The two Whistler Contemporary Galleries, located in the Four Seasons and inside the Hilton Resort, also display modern fine art.

The Fathom Stone Art Gallery features founding artist Jon Geoffrey Fathom and other Whistler-based sculptors’ stone carvings of Coast Mountain and Pacific Ocean iconic animals and human figures. Sculptor James Stewart specializes in the human form, figures at once animated and contemplative, inside his gallery.







Mark Richards merges fine photography with printmaking to create arresting local landscapes. The Galleries at the Fairmont show a variety of visual artists, including photographers, painters, and sculptors. Shannon Ford’s brilliant grizzly portraiture will open in March. Abstract painter Suzanne Johnston exhibits her work in her studio gallery located inside the Westin Resort and Spa.

The Plaza Galleries, Whistler’s largest showcase, also expands the canvas, featuring all genres of work from Canadian and international artists. The Gallery at the Arts Center features a rotating, pop-up exhibit of artists during each fall’s Artwalk, which ends on November 30th.

Whistler’s appreciation for contemporary art is on display in one of the unlikeliest of places, the infamous Whistler Train Wreck Site. Previously off-limits due to safety concerns (visitors accessed the scattered train cars via active train tracks), a bridge was erected across the Cheakamus River to the site this summer. The 1956 train derailment provides a steel canvas for graffiti artists and provides a curious juxtaposition of forest and metal.

From neon to totems, Whistler’s public art also presents many interesting juxtapositions throughout the village. Many of the outdoor sculptures such as Medicine Man, Grandfather and Inlyaxan: Thunderspirit are representative of First Nations artists and their indelible relationship with the spirit of their land and its inhabitants.

The whimsical Rec-Line, Storyteller’s Chair, and Poet’s Pause: Lost in Sound provide observers with a reason to slow down and smile at the aesthetic balance of physical exertion, peaceful moments, and harmony with nature. Over sixty other pieces of community art, from peace murals to bronze animal sculptures, surround our Whistler area.

Art, of course, would not be possible without artists. Fortunately, artists have always been drawn to the Sea-to-Sky Corridor. Several artists reside in Pemberton, where they work in open studios or in their galleries. Karen Love works in several mediums including watercolor and acrylic to interpret her environment. Vanessa Stark’s paintings and ink drawings represent the mystical possibilities in nature. The Pemberton Arts Council promotes the Pemberton Valley, located about twenty-five minutes north of Whistler, as a prominent arts destination worth exploring.

Whistler artists continue to invigorate their local arts community. Some, like potter Vincent Massey, first moved to Whistler to ski, returning to establish his ceramic studio after art school. Glass artist Linda Davies arrived two decades after Massey in 1997, drawn to the light and view outside her studio, inspiration for her signature glass bead designs. Recent arrival Baz Carolan established his graffiti talents in new and unexpected directions. The Irish native credits Whistler’s supportive arts community for his continued evolution as an artist.

Whether watching Baz ink a pair of Vans or visiting the newest public art installation, A Timeless Circle by world-renowned bronze artist Susan Point, a trip to Whistler is no longer complete without sampling the spectacular art permeating the environment.
