title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
The next big step after an interview: Crafting a thank-you letter|http://www.sfgate.com|https://blog.sfgate.com/gettowork/2018/09/27/the-next-big-step-after-an-interview-crafting-a-thank-you-letter/||2018-09-27|Kim Thompson||Being invited for an interview doesn’t usually appear in thin air, rather it occurs because of your accumulative efforts in developing a resume, completing a strong profile, developing a plan of action, applying for positions, making new connections and focusing on being a top candidate.

One of the most crucial steps during the interview process is one that can easily be underestimated — writing a thank-you letter. The means of expressing appreciation and connecting with people has changed overtime, a letter versus an email, nonetheless the strategy is the same.

The strategy of a crafting a letter is to differentiate yourself from other candidates while personalizing it to the hiring decision maker or those involved in the hiring process. Many times, people view a thank-you letter as being redundant after having a good interview and making a strong impression but a well-written letter can increase your chances for a job offer. How so? It gives you a chance to go the extra mile to show gratitude, recap your qualifications and communicate new information.

During an interview, numerous levels of communication take place between you and the interviewer: Both of you, unknowingly, are observing one another’s verbal and non-verbal language. The nature of an interview makes it challenging for interviewers to remember every facet discussed in your background and a thank-you letter serves as a reminder.

Like most candidates desiring to make a strong impression, there could be questions asked that may take you by surprise or create concern with the interviewer.

A thank-you letter can help support your qualifications and address concerns that were implied during the interview. For example, if the interviewer felt as though you were lacking experience in a certain area relating to the job position, a letter can help reinstate how your experience matches the job requirements by including a results-oriented accomplishment.

A good letter requires that you spend time thinking about the message you want to send and what distinguishes you from other candidates. Letters can serve as turning points because they demonstrate how well you listened to the interviewer’s needs and goals.

One of the comments from those struggling to write an effective letter is what to say and how to say it. With the belief that a letter is too cumbersome, don’t make the mistake of using a template to show your personality. One-size fits all letters never work and instead of making a good impression you leave the interviewer with more of the same.

Thank-you letters help support your answers to questions during the interview and convey your desire to work for the employer.

Here are some quick tips to make your thank-you letters more effective:

Less is more . The first paragraph should briefly highlight the major reasons why you are the right candidate for the job. Highlight your enthusiasm and contributions that will resonate with the interviewer/hiring decision maker. Keep your letters to one page if possible.

. The first paragraph should briefly highlight the major reasons why you are the right candidate for the job. Highlight your enthusiasm and contributions that will resonate with the interviewer/hiring decision maker. Keep your letters to one page if possible. Personalize your letter by addressing them to the interviewer . The more you know about the interviewer the better chances you have in customizing your content, it’s difficult to sound sincere when the letter you send reads like a generic form.

. The more you know about the interviewer the better chances you have in customizing your content, it’s difficult to sound sincere when the letter you send reads like a generic form. Convey what you can do for the employer. Your goal is to land an interview and while your interests are important to you, they probably come last on the agenda of a hiring decision maker.

Interviewers remember those who took the time to write a well thought-letter expressing the needs of the employer combined with their interests.

In your opinion, how important is a thank-you letter?
