title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
The History of Bartholomew Park Winery in Sonoma, CA|http://sfinsider.sfgate.com|https://sfinsider.sfgate.com/the-history-of-bartholomew-park-winery-in-sonoma-ca/#comments||2018-09-07|Sf Insider||Visiting Sonoma County in California to explore the wineries operating in the region is an unforgettable experience for anyone who appreciates fine wine. Northern California has a wide array of wineries of every size and style. Many of the boutique wineries provide visitors with an appealing experience, thanks to the more intimate surroundings of these smaller estates. The Bartholomew Park Winery is connected with one of the oldest wineries still operating in Sonoma Valley.

Introducing the Bartholomew Park Winery

The Bundschu family operates the Gundlach Bundschu winery, which is one of the oldest wineries in California. The vision for Bartholomew Park Winery was to produce site-specific wines using a handcrafting process. Renovation and replanting of the estate vineyards enabled the winery to receive organic certification in 2005, which further ensures the highest quality of grapes that become wines with the Bartholomew Park label.

History of Bartholomew Park

The history of the winery officially dates back to the 1830s, when the vineyard lands were first planted. Frank Bartholomew bought the land in the 1940s, and he and his wife produced their first vintage in 1947. The Bartholomews dabbled in winemaking as a hobby for two decades before they sold their brand name and the original vineyard acreage in 1968. The Bundschu family started the Bartholomew Park Winery in 1994. With six generations of expert vintners working to establish the winery and continue the vision of the original vineyard founders, it was poised to succeed. The winery buildings and gardens have been renovated and the estate vineyard replanted to ensure that only the finest wines emerge from this facility.

The Wines and the Vineyards

Bartholomew Park Winery has 21 acres of estate vineyards, which are situated at the base of the Mayacamas Mountains. The unique location of these vineyards produces warm temperatures with consistent breezes for ventilation. The soils also have exceptional drainage, which helps produce exceptional grapes. The Bartholomew vineyards are farmed organically for the utmost in flavor and sustainability. The estate vineyards produce Sauvignon Blanc, Zinfandel and Syrah. Sonoma Valley vineyards produce Cabernet Sauvignon and a proprietary blend of Cabernet, Merlot and Petit Verdot.

A Visit to Bartholomew Park Winery

Bartholomew Park Winery welcomes visitors out to the estate to enjoy the grounds and taste the reserve wines. The tasting room and museum keep daily hours between 11:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. Walk-ins are welcome in the tasting room, or groups can make a reservation for a private tasting. The estate also features 300 acres of park land where visitors can explore and hike the vineyards, enjoy the gardens and picnic on the lawns.

The tasting room at Bartholomew Park Winery is the place to go for experiencing the reserve wines produced by this winery. The focus on producing the finest handcrafted wines assures a memorable visit.
