title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
The Importance of Testing Cannabis|http://www.sfgate.com|https://blog.sfgate.com/storystudio/2018/10/10/the-importance-of-testing-cannabis/||2018-10-10|||By StoryStudio

There are plenty of benefits when it comes to purchasing cannabis from a dispensary. While the list is certainly long, one of the key things that sets a dispensary apart from other sources is the testing that has to be done before they can sell any type of cannabis to customers.

Why is Testing Important?



Cannabis is not unlike other crops in that most people who grow it use pesticides. The processing of cannabis can also involve the use of certain ingredients that could be harmful. So, like everything you decide to consume, it’s important to know what chemicals may be present in it.

Lab testing gives a complete and transparent breakdown of not only what chemicals are found in the cannabis you’re about to buy, but also the true amounts of THC, CBD, and other compounds that will affect how a person reacts to their intake of a particular strand of cannabis.

Many independent labs exist that focus on testing cannabis prior to its sale at dispensaries across the nation. The best labs will test for various aspects, including potency, residual solvents, terpenes, pesticides, and even check for the potential of microbial contamination.

Obviously, knowing that the cannabis you’re about to use is safe is very important and it’s one of the primary reasons why people choose to shop at dispensaries.

Dispensaries Offer Higher-Quality Cannabis



By testing everything that comes in before they begin selling it to the general public, dispensaries are able to offer a higher-quality selection of cannabis compared to what you’d get from other sources.

Those “other sources” never put their product through the rigorous testing that a dispensary will, and that leaves consumers open to the potential of consuming harmful chemicals and, in general, low-quality cannabis.

Some of the primary reasons why you’ll want to begin sourcing all of your cannabis from a dispensary include:

They test everything, so you are certain that what you’re buying is safe to ingest.

You’ll have a clear understanding of the potency of each product before you make your selection.

Staff are typically very familiar with the offerings and can help guide your selection.

Overall, the cannabis they sell is higher quality and more worth the money.

When you put all of these things together, it becomes obvious why you would want to purchase from a dispensary, but not all dispensaries are created equal.

What to Look for Before You Buy



When selecting a trusted dispensary to purchase from, there are multiple aspects that need to be considered. The knowledge of the staff, the atmosphere of the dispensary, and the background of the business are all important.

Purple Star MD helps to set itself apart. As a medical cannabis dispensary collective (MCD), Purple Star serves every patient with the utmost care. Purple Star proudly displays its values through the motto “Healing is our Mission” and, so far, has helped countless patients in the area on their journey to better health.

Any patient who holds a medical cannabis card is welcomed into Purple Star. The cooperative has partnered with four non-profits in the area that have deep roots in the community. These are: AGUILAS, the Shanti Project, the San Francisco LGBT Community Center, and Breast Cancer Emergency Fund.

AGUILAS: Eduardo Morales, PhD, executive director, stated: “Purple Star MD is an important partnership for our diverse communities who are in need of a healing center that helps them manage the complications of their illnesses.”

Eduardo Morales, PhD, executive director, stated: “Purple Star MD is an important partnership for our diverse communities who are in need of a healing center that helps them manage the complications of their illnesses.” Shanti Project: Kaushik Roy, executive director, stated: “We are grateful for Purple Star MD and the help they will be providing many San Franciscans. As one of the City’s first caregiving agencies for people with HIV/AIDS and cancer, Shanti serves many clients who will benefit from Purple Star MD.”

Kaushik Roy, executive director, stated: “We are grateful for Purple Star MD and the help they will be providing many San Franciscans. As one of the City’s first caregiving agencies for people with HIV/AIDS and cancer, Shanti serves many clients who will benefit from Purple Star MD.” San Francisco LGBT Community Center: Rebecca Rolfe, executive director, stated: “Purple Star MD is an important resource for many in the LGBT community, and we are excited to be a part of an innovative model that provides culturally competent medical resources for our community, and provides funds to support health and wellness services at the SF LGBT Center as well as for our partner organizations.”

Rebecca Rolfe, executive director, stated: “Purple Star MD is an important resource for many in the LGBT community, and we are excited to be a part of an innovative model that provides culturally competent medical resources for our community, and provides funds to support health and wellness services at the SF LGBT Center as well as for our partner organizations.” Breast Cancer Emergency Fund: Mike Smith, executive director, stated: “We are delighted to partner with Purple Star MD. We are grateful to Purple Star MD patients whose contribution will help a local woman and her family during their battle with breast cancer.”

Purple Star has both strong roots in the community and even stronger values that guide the day-to-day operations of the collective.

If you are in the area and you are in search of a dispensary to meet your needs, stop by or give Purple Star a call at (415) 550-1515. Delivery services are available.
