title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
These Family Wineries in Sonoma Are Committed to Small-Batch Winemaking|http://sfinsider.sfgate.com|https://sfinsider.sfgate.com/these-family-wineries-in-sonoma-are-committed-to-small-batch-winemaking-2/||2018-09-07|Sf Insider||The lifestyle of tending vineyards and making wine has a tendency to envelop everything for those who operate wineries in Northern California. A number of wineries are family owned and operated, which gives them a distinct style and ambience. When touring California wine country, stopping in at family wineries in Sonoma can give wine lovers an up-close-and-personal experience that promises to be unforgettable. Many family wineries are all about making wine in the smallest of batches.

Kunde Family Winery

Established in 1904, the Kunde Family Winery is situated on a historic ranch in Sonoma Valley. The ranch spans estate vineyards of over 1,850 acres. The Kundes pride themselves on using sustainable growing techniques. Visiting the Kunde Family Winery presents many options. The Kinneybrook Room has seated wine tastings by reservation. The 202 Lounge is a relaxed outdoor tasting room, which is open for tastings without the need for reservations for smaller groups.

Hamel Family Wines

Hamel Family Wines is all about making fine wines while enjoying every minute of the process. With a focus on quality over quantity, the Hamels approach winemaking in small batches. Sustainable and organic farming processes are used whenever possible for the Hamel vineyards, and generations of the Hamel family are active in the winery business. Anyone wishing to visit the winery can call for a reservation. Tours are available, and the experience may include a guided tour with a wine tasting and food pairing.

Larson Family Winery

At the Larson Family Winery, the entire estate is created to be carefree and easy going. The Larson family has been farming and maintaining this land for more than a century, so it’s not surprising that the winery is full of memorabilia that spans the generations. Everyone is welcome to visit, and tastings and tours often include a picnic and a game or two of bocce on the lawn. Both indoor and outdoor tastings of the hand-crafted wines are available on most days.

Mounts Family Winery

The Mounts Family Winery is committed to growing the finest grapes possible to create delicious wines. Spanning several generations and counting, the Mounts family has been nurturing their vineyards for decades as they strive to create distinctive handcrafted wines. The limited production varietals include Grenache, Syrah, Cabernet Franc, Cabernet Sauvignon, Zinfandel and more.

These family wineries are committed to creating the finest wines possible from their vineyards. With their family-centric approach, it’s no surprise that the wines produced are so distinctive.
