title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Things to Do in the Bay Area That Are Worth the Time|http://sfinsider.sfgate.com|https://sfinsider.sfgate.com/things-to-do-in-the-bay-area-that-are-worth-the-time-2/#comments||2018-09-07|Sf Insider||San Francisco and the surrounding area is famous for its amazing attractions, fantastic high-end restaurants, impressive wineries and must-see museums. Whether a person is visiting San Francisco or living there, it’s easy to find memorable things to do in the Bay Area.

See a Giants Game at AT&T Park

If someone visiting San Francisco happens to be in the area during baseball season, then seeing a San Francisco Giants game should be at the top of his or her list of things to do in the Bay Area. There’s something about seeing one of the country’s most famous pro baseball teams playing on their home turf that makes the experience exciting and magical. If those visiting happen to be there during the offseason, checking out AT&T Park is still worth it.

Visit Golden Gate Park

As one of the largest parks in the country, Golden Gate Park is one of the must-see San Francisco attractions for anyone coming to the Bay Area. With more than 1,000 square feet of space and an endlessly beautiful view, visitors could easily spend an entire day in the park before they see all of it. One of the amazing attractions in Golden Gate Park is the Japanese Tea Garden, which is one of the oldest Japanese gardens in the United States.

Take a Trip to Union Square

The Union Square area of San Francisco should be on everyone’s list of things to do in the Bay Area. Anyone who wants to eat at the best restaurants in the world can enjoy gourmet meals at places like Hops and Hominy, Bartlett Hall, Hogwash and Urban Tavern. In addition to award-winning restaurants, visitors can enjoy upscale coffee shops and bars as well as some of the best shopping in the area.

Visit Famous Wineries

The wineries in the Bay Area are some of the most-loved San Francisco attractions and an absolute must for anyone looking for noteworthy things to do area. See how real California wine is made, taste some of the best wine in the U.S. and dine at one of the many high-end restaurants in wine country. A visit to one of the Bay Area’s many famous wineries can offer fun for the whole family and, despite the drinking aspect, doesn’t need to be an adult’s only visit.

When it comes to finding the best things to do in the Bay Area, there are enough attractions to keep everyone in the family or traveling party happy. Whether it’s a business trip, vacation or romantic weekend, these San Francisco attractions offer fun and excitement for the whole family.
