title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
This sunny Belvedere estate features bay views at every turn|http://www.sfgate.com/commercial|http://blog.sfgate.com/storystudio/2017/09/13/this-sunny-belvedere-estate-features-bay-views-at-every-turn/||2017-09-13|||By StoryStudio

























































Image 1 of / 15 Caption Close Image 2 of 15 Image 3 of 15 Image 4 of 15 Image 5 of 15 Image 6 of 15 Image 7 of 15 Image 8 of 15 Image 9 of 15 Image 10 of 15 Image 11 of 15 Image 12 of 15 Image 13 of 15 Image 14 of 15 Image 15 of 15 This sunny Belvedere estate features bay views at every turn 1 / 15 Back to Gallery

If you’re going to invest in a seven-figure home on the north side of the Golden Gate Bridge, make the most of it.

You want a quiet location that’s close to amenities and a short drive to San Francisco. You want a home that’s at one with natural surroundings, letting in sunlight and allowing for breathtaking views of the Bay, Mt. Tamalpais and the Marin County hills. And of course you want lots of patios and other enclaves where you can enjoy the fresh air.

You’ll get all of the above and more at this five-bedroom, three-and-a-half bath home in exclusive Belvedere. Perched on a hill and surrounded by oak trees, you’ll find a sunny estate where each bedroom has its own private patio, with stunning water views everywhere you turn. You’re also minutes from San Francisco Yacht Club, Corinthian Yacht Club and the Belvedere Tennis Club, as well as a short commute from the city.

The stunning tiled foyer leads to an open living area with white walls, cathedral ceilings and wide, tall windows. The contemporary design offers a fresh canvas to customize to your taste and decorative sensibilities.

This room, like many others, opens to a balcony large enough for seating and a barbecue—perfect for relaxing or entertaining. The adjacent dining area, with its polished hardwood floors, opens to the property’s walking paths and gardens.

Take a video tour of 75 Madrona:

On the main floor you’ll also find an additional family area with built-in bookshelves, wood beam ceilings and a cozy brick fireplace (one of three in the home). This room also features bar seating that opens to the French country-style kitchen. In it, you’ll find white tile countertops, a butcherblock center island and crisp white cabinetry. Modern appliances include a gas stovetop, dual oven and all the other usual suspects.

Upstairs, the master suite features soaring ceilings, a fireplace and arched windows that reveal water and Belvedere views. With multiple deck access, the master suite makes an ideal respite.

The decks’ dark wood contrasts nicely with the clean white colors found within the master bedroom and bath. Its stone counters and double sinks, combined with extensive built-in cabinetry and shelving, offer convenience and style. A Jacuzzi tub and twin showers provide the space and setting to let all worries fall away.

The master suite includes an additional room that you can use as an office, a library or for an au pair. Most guest bedrooms come with their own full- or half-baths.

Additional amenities include a three-car garage, large enough for six or more automobiles and/or hobbies, as well as a covered four-car parking area. And, as mentioned, patio space galore.

Lists at $4.1 million. To schedule a tour of this Belvedere home, located at 75 Madrona Avenue, contact Prashant Vanka, Intero Real Estate, at 650-485-3537 or homes@vankagroup.com.
