title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Tony-Winning Thriller Oslo Comes to the Marin Theatre Company|http://www.sfgate.com|https://blog.sfgate.com/storystudio/2018/09/10/tony-winning-thriller-oslo-comes-to-the-marin-theatre/||2018-09-10|||By StoryStudio

When J. T. Rogers’ play Oslo premiered, its tension and drama quickly captivated audiences. An intellectual thriller, the story goes deep into the secret backchannel that birthed the Oslo Accords. But before Oslo made it to Broadway, everything changed.

After the 2016 presidential election, a play about a decades-old Israeli–Palestinian peace process suddenly resonated on a deeper level. Rogers hadn’t changed a thing about his script, but the ground beneath his narrative had shifted. The playwright recalls sitting at the back of the theater when the play first opened on Broadway, gauging audience reaction. Then the realization hit him: Everyone was silently relating Oslo’s deeply human drama to the current chasm between red and blue America.

The 2017 Tony winner for Best Play focuses on the overlooked story of how one Norwegian couple—diplomat Mona Juul and social scientist Terje Rød-Larsen—facilitated clandestine meetings between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization, ultimately leading to the famous 1993 picture of Yitzhak Rabin and Yasir Arafat shaking hands as Bill Clinton looked on.

Rogers, who also wrote The Overwhelming about the Rwandan genocide and Blood and Gifts about American involvement in Afghanistan, is a self-professed foreign policy wonk and the child of a political scientist. But, as he once mentioned in an interview, he doesn’t want his plays to feel like homework. Before a mutual connection introduced him to Larsen, Rogers admits that he’d assumed the United States had brokered the Oslo Accords, likely because of the photo of Rabin, Arafat, and Clinton.

He imagines it’s the same for most Americans, or at least that they don’t know the full extent of the story. Oslo takes care to fill the audience in without being overrun by minutiae. Instead of feeling like a history textbook read aloud, the play unfurls like a thriller and homes in on the human story behind the talks, bringing all the fear, ambition, angst, and hope roaring to life.

“As a playwright, I look to tell stories that are framed against great political rupture,” Rogers wrote in the New York Times. “I am obsessed with putting characters onstage who struggle with, and against, cascading world events—and who are changed forever through that struggle.”

Rogers immediately realized the Oslo story would be perfect for the stage, propelled by its inherent high stakes. Everyone involved took tremendous risks. While the facilitators may have feared for their careers, Israeli and Palestinian participants took their very lives in their hands, worrying that their actions could backfire and bring everything tumbling down. Without official support from the American or Norwegian governments, and with the Israelis and Palestinians locked in deadly battle, the idea seemed not only far-fetched, but suicidal. Details about covert meetings in a remote castle and cases of Johnnie Walker Black whisky only added to Rogers’ intrigue.

“The question that was so fascinating for me, that sort of took me into the play, was, ‘What would it be like to have the courage to sit across from your enemy, and to see that enemy as a human being?’” Rogers explained in a recent interview. “And then the unexpected thing is that you are the one that is changed. And that to me was worthy of writing a play about.”

Staged and choreographed like a musical but performed without the lyrical element, Oslo required years of research. Rogers took dramatic liberties to better illustrate the crux of what happened but the story is based on actual events. Viewers who want more background on the illicit, unsanctioned meetings can watch The Oslo Diaries, a 2018 documentary about the process that premieres September 13 on HBO. Rogers is also in the middle of turning his stage production into a film.

Oslo is inherently political, given its subject matter. But the play excels because it doesn’t rely on heavy-handed preachiness and remains free of even vague references to the present. Instead, Rogers does what all great storytellers do: he allows his audiences to draw their own conclusions. He presents a character-driven thriller with a fast-paced and clear plot but resists any urge to package the ending neatly for audiences.

It’s only natural that theatergoers would relate it to their own context. That’s part of the primary reason to study history—to learn from it, possibly be inspired by it, to wonder if it can teach us something about the present. The Israelis and Palestinians in the play needed distance from their daily lives to think, gain perspective, and connect with each other. Oslo provides a similar kind of distance for audiences, forcing us to consider similarities rather than prescribing solutions.

The Oslo Accords, of course, did not lead to lasting peace for Israelis and Palestinians. This isn’t a neatly packaged, feel-good story. While imbued with moments of real humor, Oslo is mostly a sober and stunning glimpse into the minds of people without much reason to believe they could succeed. But, they resolved, not trying wasn’t an option.

That may be message enough, whether or not you relate it to metastasizing American partisanship and political rancor. Oslo is a story of determination and perseverance despite all odds, a compelling narrative that leaves an indelible impression. And that’s exactly what Rogers set out to do.

“I am awed by the personal and political courage that took,” Rogers wrote, describing Oslo’s real-life stars. “It is a moment of history that I do not want forgotten.”

Helmed by Marin’s artistic director Jasson Minadakis, the fast-moving and highly lauded Oslo will have its West Coast premiere at Marin Theatre Company on September 27 and run through October 21. The show was previously produced both on and off Broadway in New York City and in London at the Royal National Theatre. Buy your tickets now.
