title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Treasure Island Music Festival: A guide to the boutique indie festival on the Bay|http://www.sfgate.com|https://datebook.sfchronicle.com/guide/treasure-island-music-festival-a-guide-to-the-boutique-indie-festival-on-the-bay||2018-10-09|Aidin Vaziri,Chronicle Staff,Mariecar Mendoza,Andrew Gilbert||What is Treasure Island Music Festival?

There are several reasons why the Treasure Island Music Festival has stood as the Bay Area’s favorite boutique festival for the past decade: The unforgettable sets by indie stars like Beck, the National, Massive Attack, Death Cab for Cutie, Outkast, Vampire Weekend, LCD Soundsystem, Best Coast and more. The continuous music from more than two dozen acts playing on a pair of adjacent stages with no overlapping sets. The laid-back atmosphere of a backyard barbecue with a dazzling array of midway attractions, art installations, food trucks, a silent disco, and the 60-foot Ferris wheel that lifts fans above the fog and howling gusts of wind.

But for its 2018 return, the festival — co-produced by a pair of powerhouse Bay Area promoters, Noise Pop Industries and Another Planet Entertainment — is leaving its namesake location after being forced to relocate in 2016 to make way for construction on Treasure Island’s long-awaited $6 billion redevelopment project. Taking a one-year hiatus to secure a new location, the promoters now bring the two-day outdoor concert back to the bay on Saturday and Sunday, Oct. 13-14 at Middle Harbor Shoreline Park in Oakland.

Who’s playing?

Tame Impala and A$AP Rocky will headline the festival, topping a bill that also includes Silk City (the new project by producers Diplo and Mark Ronson), Lord Huron, Pusha T, Santigold, Courtney Barnett, Jungle, Soccer Mommy , Sharon Van Etten, Aminé, Cigarettes After Sex, Hiatus Kaiyote and others.

What’s the vibe?

With about 18,000 attendees, Treasure Island offers more elbow room than larger Northern California music festivals like Outside Lands and BottleRock. The atmosphere is laid back and intimate, with plenty of distractions from the music – which runs nonstop on two alternating stages — like the food stands, on-site record stores, art installations and midway games. There’s also the Ferris Wheel – the site of countless make-out sessions and Instagram posts.

What’s the weather like?

As chill as the festival can be, it can also get extremely chilly. When located on the island, the weather played a big role in shaping the mood of the weekend. In 2016, heavy winds and rain delayed or completely washed out sets by several acts. Things should be milder at the new site but the mid-October weather in the Bay Area can be wildly unpredictable so bring plenty of layers – and maybe a pair of galoshes.

How do I get there?

There’s no designated festival parking. Ticket holders will have to rely on rideshare options and complimentary shuttle buses, running on a continuous loop to the West Oakland BART station on both days, to get to and from the grounds.

What to do after the festival?

Also as in years prior, the festival organizers have planned a run of night shows running alongside the event at various San Francisco venues. On Thursday, Oct. 11, singer-songwriter Kevin Morby plays at the Academy of Sciences’ NightLife. On Friday, Oct. 12, indie rock duo the Dodos take the stage at the Independent. On Saturday, Oct. 13, the indie act Mothers performs at Cafe du Nord. Tickets to the festival’s night shows are available at the official Treasure Island Music Festival website.

Want more?

See our list of 6 must-see acts at Treasure Island Music Festival 2018 here. Also, read our interview with Soccer Mommy here.

Treasure Island Music Festival: Noon Saturday-Sunday, Oct. 13-14. $105-$345. Middle Harbor Shoreline Park, 2777 Middle Harbor Rd, Oakland. www.treasureislandfestival.com
