title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
United Nations Association Film Festival explores human rights in many forms|http://www.sfgate.com|https://datebook.sfchronicle.com/movies-tv/united-nations-association-film-festival-explores-human-rights-in-many-forms||2018-10-16|G. Allen Johnson,Peter Hartlaub,Pam Grady,Jessica Zack,Jacqueline Cutler,Mick Lasalle||Ghazwan Alsharif is the subject of “From Baghdad to the Bay,” a documentary about an Iraqi who assisted the U.S. military in Iraq and has become a chef and LGBTQ activist in the Bay Area. During the Iraq War, Ghazwan Alsharif was one of thousands of Iraqis who helped the U.S. military. He was a translator, knew the local layout and schooled American troops on Iraqi customs and decorum to help facilitate their interaction with the population.

Yet he was accused of being a double agent, tortured for 75 days and eventually cleared. He now lives in the Bay Area, where he is the executive chef of the California Academy of Sciences in Golden Gate Park, once appeared on a Guy Fieri reality show and is an outspoken LGBTQ activist.

His incredible story is told in the new documentary by Erin Palmquist, one of many issues-oriented documentaries in the 21st United Nations Association Film Festival, which begins Thursday, Oct. 18, at the Aquarius Theatre in Palo Alto and runs through Oct. 28 in various venues in Palo Alto, East Palo Alto, Stanford and San Francisco.

“It’s about resurrecting and reclaiming the American dream, which needs reclaiming, I think,” Palmquist said. “It touches on issues of refugee settlement, LGBTQ rights.”

Indeed, many of the films tackle hot-button issues that are on the minds of many voters on the verge of casting ballots in the midterm elections.

Climate change? How about “Dirt Rich,” Marcelina Cravat’s documentary about strategies to pull carbon out of the air and put it back in the soil, where it’s desperately needed to provide eco-balance; or the Jeff Bridges-produced “Living in the Future’s Past.”

“Mostly when we talk about climate change we focus on emissions,” Cravat said. “Although emissions are very important, the real problem is that we have to pull that carbon out of the air, because it’s doing so much damage.”

Health care? How about “The Providers,” a documentary that follows three health care providers in a rural town in New Mexico and the challenges of providing adequate health care away from urban centers.

“There’s a two-year gap in life expectancy from people who live in rural areas to people who live in urban areas,” co-director Laura Green said. “It’s been a long-standing crisis. So we follow ‘providers’ — we call them that because a lot of the people who act as doctors in rural areas aren’t doctors anymore. They’re nurse practitioners and physician assistants.”

Discrimination and bias? Try “Bias,” Robin Hauser’s self-exploration about unconscious bias, and how implicit bias affects us socially and in the workplace; or Harleen Singh’s unique approach in “Drawn Together: Comics, Diversity and Stereotypes,” which follows three people who upend our perception of superheroes. One is an African American challenging police brutality through cartoons, another a female cartoonist who transcends gender stereotyping, and finally there’s a guy who dresses up as Captain America and roams around the streets of New York — he’s about 4 feet tall, lanky and he has a turban and a beard.

There is, of course, much more — issues such as criminal justice reform, international politics and relations, homelessness and other films addressing basic human rights are featured in the 11-day festival, the brainchild of Stanford educator Jasmina Bojic. The inspiration was to celebrate the ideals contained in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which was adopted by the U.N. on Dec. 19, 1948 — 70 years ago.

Although mainly based in the Palo Alto/Stanford area, the festival annually schedules a day in San Francisco at the Ninth Street Independent Film Center on Oct. 24 — which is United Nations Day. That’s the day the U.N. Charter, drafted in San Francisco, was ratified in 1945.

One of the films screening in San Francisco includes a film which hews close the U.N. ideals. “A Bold Peace” details Costa Rica’s 70 years without a standing military, operating largely in peace through strong diplomacy and investment in its people. Also screening: “The Jazz Ambassadors,” a fascinating documentary about a U.S. plan to use great American jazz artists — Louis Armstrong, Dizzy Gillespie and Duke Ellington among them — as international cultural ambassadors during a time of Jim Crow at home.

Several of the festival programs have free admission, others have free admission with a student ID. Discussions with filmmakers, subjects and experts follow most screenings, and there are also several panel discussions as well.

What might surprise some is that many of these films, despite their mission to highlight abuses or mismanagement of power in people, governments and systems, the prevailing mood isn’t angry but hopeful and solution-based.

“From Baghdad to the Bay” has a very serious message:

“It’s an urgent call for action because the (Trump) administration currently decided they would only allow 30,000 refugees for the next fiscal year, which is far below historically what what he have allowed,” Palmquist said. “For the last fiscal year, it was supposed to be 45,000, but we only let in 19,000. There are hundreds of thousands of people in limbo right now.”

And yet the film’s ultimate message is healing, courtesy of its engaging subject, Alsharif.

“I was tortured for 75 days, and I did not, except one day maybe, give up,” Alsharif said. “When I came back, I had depression. I wanted to do something crazy. But something inside me said, ‘I am smarter, I am better. I can do something. I can change.’ …

“Now, everyone I meet is a family for me. I wake up at 4 a.m. and cannot wait to start cooking. … Food is one of the things that kept me alive, make me want to do more. For me, this is my country now. We all make mistakes. Even big countries. Even great countries such as America make mistakes.”

“From Baghdad to the Bay” screens at UNAFF at 4:30 p.m. Sunday, Oct. 21, at the Mitchell Park Community Center in Palo Alto. It is also screening at 5 p.m. Friday, Oct. 19, at the New Parkway Theater in Oakland as part of the Arab Film Festival.

United Nations Association Film Festival: Thursday, Oct. 18, through Oct. 28 at venues in Palo Alto, East Palo Alto, Stanford and San Francisco. www.unaff.org.
