title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Utah Mormons clash over medical marijuana legalization|http://www.sfgate.com/cannabis|https://blog.sfgate.com/smellthetruth/2018/07/30/utah-mormons-clash-over-medical-marijuana-legalization/?search=cannabis||2018-07-30|Oscar Pascual||As Utah moves closer to voting on a medical marijuana ballot this November, members of the Mormon church and its leaders are split on the issue.

Mormon church leaders have become increasingly more outspoken against Utah’s Proposition 2 initiative as the vote approaches, the Los Angeles Times reports.

More than 60 percent of the state’s population identify as Mormon, and two-thirds of Utah voters support the medical marijuana proposal, according to a poll from the Salt Lake Tribune-Hinckley Institute of Politics.

“We’re talking about medical marijuana, which science time and again has shown to have benefits for people in pain and suffering,” DJ Schanz, a Mormon and the director of the legalization campaign, told the LA Times. “People are being prescribed pills but can’t use something natural.”

Under the church’s lifestyle guidelines called the “Word of Wisdom,” marijuana is not mentioned specifically, leaving many associated with the faith to seek guidance from church officials regarding the status of medicinal cannabis.

Despite the support for legalization, however, Mormon leaders praised a memo in support of prohibition by the Utah Medical Assn. for “cautioning that the proposed Utah marijuana initiative would compromise the health and safety of Utah communities.”

Gov. Gary Herbert, a Mormon Church member and Republican, has also spoken out against the measure.

“I am concerned about this initiative because of the lack of medical science on the safety, efficacy and proper dosage for compounds found in cannabis,” Herbert said in an email. “We should have clinical studies — just like we do for any other FDA-approved medicine. We need to isolate what helps and heals from what harms.”

On the other side of the argument is Brian Stoll, a practicing Mormon who has successfully used cannabis as an alternative to prescription opioids. Stoll has worked to gather thousands of signatures for the ballot initiative.

“It seemed asinine that if I lived in another state, I wouldn’t have to make such a difficult decision,” Stoll told the Times. “This is something that if I drive east or west — to Colorado or Nevada — is 100% legal and helpful to my situation. We’re not talking about recreational. This is simply for medical.”

Smell The Truth is one of the internet’s most popular destinations for cannabis-related news and culture. This blog is not written or edited by SFGate or the San Francisco Chronicle. The authors are solely responsible for the content.
