title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Venice Recap|http://www.sfgate.com/movies|https://blog.sfgate.com/mlasalle/2018/09/24/venice-recap/||2018-09-24|Mick Lasalle||Earlier this month I was a panelist at the Venice Film Festival, discussing and evaluating the films of the Biennale College, which has funded low budget art films for most of the past decade. In between, I saw other movies. Some years, I concentrate on foreign films that I might otherwise never get to see, but that can be frustrating, because the movies rarely come to the United States, and so there’s no occasion to write about them. So this time I went the opposite way, focusing mostly on big American releases, heading for a theater near you.

What follows are previews, not reviews, of movies that I found interesting. The reviews will come later, when the movies are released. The good news is that all are worth seeing, though some with reservations.

The Ballad of Buster Scruggs: The new Coen brothers film is an anthology film made of six shorts, set in the wild west of the 19th century, some better than others, but all of them interesting and bearing the Coen’s distinct personality. Like most Coen brothers’ films, there is humor throughout, which mitigates the utter hopelessness of the vision at work here. The Coens’ present the west as a place of desolation, violence, nihilism and bleakness beyond despair. It’s remarkable how they manage to make that vision bearable, much less palatable, over the course of more than two hours of screen time. But they do.

First Man: The latest from the eclectic young director Damien Chazelle (“La La Land”) tells the story of Neil Armstrong (Ryan Gosling), from his early days as a pilot to his landing on the moon in 1969. The movie attempts to place the audience inside the experience of space travel, a fly-on-the-wall strategy that it overplays somewhat. Also somewhat overplayed is the presentation of Armstrong as a cypher, unable to connect with his family. Still, there are strong performances here (notably Claire Foy as Armstrong’s wife), and the movie’s angle on the space program and its human cost is original and compelling.

The Other Side of the Wind: Orson Welles filmed this throughout the early 1970s, but he ran out of funds to complete it. He edited several dazzling sequences, which have tantalized cineastes for decades, but the rest has remained unfinished, a hundred unedited hours waiting to be assembled somehow, by somebody. Well, finally, someone has done it — editor Bob Murawski. We can never know to what extent the film that Murawski assembled would have resembled Welles’ finished version, but it’s probably close enough – certainly, in terms of story, it’s probably identical. The movie takes place over the course of one night, a party celebrating the 70th birthday of a Hemingwayesque filmmaker (John Huston). Interspersed with the party scenes are scenes from the director’s latest movie, which mostly consist of Oja Kodar (Welles’ real-life companion) walking around with no clothes on. Individual scenes and sequences in “The Other Side of the Wind” are brilliant, but the movie’s lack of anything resembling a compelling story make it a chore to sit through. Or rather, it’s easy to sit through, in between dozing off.

A Star is Born: In terms of pure enjoyment, this was my favorite film in Venice. Directed by Bradley Cooper, and co-starring Cooper and Lady Gaga, this is the fourth cinematic version of this story, which first debuted in 1936. Counting the latest, it has produced three superior movies, not just good but very good, the best probably being the Judy Garland-James Mason edition of 1954, and the only disappointment being the 1976 version with Kris Kristofferson and Barbra Streisand.

Both a romance and a showbiz story, the new version finds Cooper as a substance-abusing rock star who discovers, nurtures and falls in love with a young talent, played by Lady Gaga, who is just terrific here. Here acting is fine, and her singing inspires awe, rather like Whitney Houston in “The Bodyguard.” The movie has an electrifying first hour and then runs into some problems, which I’ll get around to describing in the review. Still, this is pretty much a triumph.

“Vox Lux”: This is one of the great movies of 2018 and the best film I saw in Venice. A short description can’t do justice to the weirdness and specificity of the film’s tone and the ferocity of its viewpoint. It’s basically the moral history of the 21st century as told through the story of a teenage girl, who survives a school shooting and becomes a pop star when she writes a song about the experience. Natalie Portman stars in the film’s second half, which presents the singer as an adult. Written and directed by Brady Corbet, a talent to watch, there’s something about this film that feels both modern and unwilling to be taken in by modernity. It’s of its time and fiercely in opposition to its time. It’s an important movie.

VR: While I was here, I saw several virtual reality movies, all of them shorts, though some as long as 30-minutes long. Seeing them requires wearing what is practically a helmet of headphones and heavy goggles. The films are projected into the goggles, which means that, while watching, you can’t see your hands or your feet – you can only see the movie. And the movie surrounds you on all sides, up and down, in front and behind. The technology is still at an early stage – the images are a little blurry, like old VCR footage – but it’s a fascinating way to watch a movie, because it’s like being in a room, but not having a body. It’s like being a ghost. I can’t imagine this kind of thing ever replacing standard movies, but it’s an experience worth having, and I’d be interesting to see where the technology is on this in a few years. In the meantime, if you ever have a chance to see a virtual reality movie, do it. There’s nothing like it.

Incidentally, the panel I was on was moderated by British film historian Peter Cowie, the premiere expert on the works of Ingmar Bergman and the author of over 300 books on cinema (including a new one on the Venice film festival), and included Stephanie Zacharek (Time Magazine), Chris Vognar (Dallas Morning News), author David Bordwell, Michael Phillips (Chicago Tribune) and Glenn Kenny (RogerEbert.com).
