title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
What Are Some Must-Try Restaurants Near the Civic Center?|http://sfinsider.sfgate.com|https://sfinsider.sfgate.com/what-are-some-must-try-restaurants-near-the-civic-center/||2018-10-18|Sf Insider||When hunger strikes, diners need not look far for a variety of neighborhood food near the Civic Center area. Cuisine options are wide and varied, representing everything from traditional American and Asian to European and Mexican cuisine. One need only choose a favorite to enjoy delightful meals.

Zuni Café

The location was originally a cactus store, and the founder of Zuni Café decided to keep the southwestern theme. He chose to name the adobe-like facility in honor of the Pueblo civilizations that were indigenous to Arizona and New Mexico. The restaurant initially featured Mexican cuisine but later transitioned to include European-style options. Menu choices today might include roasted poultry and vegetables, game birds, vegetable gratins and delicious tarts. The lunch, brunch, afternoon and dinner dishes feature a bit of French and Italian flair, too. The venue is proud of using sustainable meal preparation by using locally produced and harvested ingredients when possible.

Absinthe Brasserie & Bar

The Absinthe Brasserie & Bar was founded in 1998 and is a short distance from the Civic Center. The popular venue features a casual interior reminiscent of turn-of-the-century France. The specially designed space has a bar and separate entrance. The Absinthe serves lunch, brunch and dinner during most weekdays. Guests can choose from a wide selection of snacks, appetizers and entrees in addition to options from the extensive wine list.

Plaj

The Scandinavian word Plaj means “play,” and the facility presents an informal atmosphere designed to celebrate the opportunity to join with friends and family in the celebration of food and drink. The menu features dishes that combine Californian and Scandinavian cuisine using locally harvested, fresh, seasonal ingredients. Some of the seasonal favorites that guests may be able to enjoy include cabbage rolls or Swedish meatballs complete with sides and a choice of dessert.

These are just some of the many diverse choices of cuisine that you can enjoy around the Civic Center area in the city. Regardless of what type of dish that piques your curiosity, you are very likely to find a great dining spot right in this part of the city.
