title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
What Are Some Must-Try Restaurants in Lower Nob Hill?|http://sfinsider.sfgate.com|https://sfinsider.sfgate.com/what-are-some-must-try-restaurants-in-lower-nob-hill/||2018-10-18|Sf Insider||San Francisco’s Lower Nob Hill doesn’t always get as much attention as its busier and more high-profile neighbors, but it too offers stellar dining options and vibrant nightlife. Whether you’re looking for a casual place to grab a burger or an elegant restaurant for a special occasion, you can find nearly every type of ambience and culinary style in this neighborhood. These must-try restaurants in Lower Nob Hill offer up a range of global cuisines for most tastes and budgets.

Hogwash

This bustling eatery attracts a diverse clientele and offers a robust menu of hearty favorites. The restaurant pairs sausages and salads with selections from its meticulously chosen beer menu. Hogwash typically offers several beers on tap. Communal tables give the eatery a bustling atmosphere and encourage European-style mingling, but there are also seats by the bar for anyone looking for something a little quieter and more private.

Sons & Daughters

This upscale eatery is famous for its tasting menus. The eatery is one of the more expensive in the Lower Nob Hill area, but it features high-quality food to match the sophisticated ambience that makes it ideal for intimate dinners. You can also choose optional wine pairings to enhance the flavors of your meal. Intimate without much seating, Sons & Daughters goes for glamour with rotating tasting menus that are luxuriously rustic. Dishes often focus on fresh seafood, mushrooms and locally grown meats.

Sanraku

A San Francisco presence for several decades now, Sanraku aims to offer fresh, flavorful sushi to Bay Area visitors while acting as a culinary ambassador that demonstrates just how interesting Japanese food and culture can be. On the menu, you might find maki sushi classics like dragon rolls, rainbow rolls and classic California rolls. However, some dishes also have slightly European twists, like the sashimi salad that’s often served on fresh arugula with cherry tomatoes and a dusting of tobiko caviar. If you’re in the mood for light, authentic fare, Sanraku is a great option.

If you find yourself in the Lower Nob Hill neighborhood during your visit to San Francisco, you certainly won’t go hungry. Trying the delicious dishes and drinks at these restaurants is a great way to relax after a day of sightseeing.
