title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
What Are Some of the Best San Francisco Wine Tours?|http://sfinsider.sfgate.com|https://sfinsider.sfgate.com/what-are-some-of-the-best-san-francisco-wine-tours/#comments||2018-10-18|Sf Insider||Sightseeing in San Francisco tends to occupy tourists for many days because there’s just so much to see and do. Many people visiting the area also have wine tasting and vineyard visiting on their list of things to do. The good news is that a variety of companies offer San Francisco wine tours with transportation out of the city included in the packages. Zeroing in on the best San Francisco tours ensures the excursion is an unparalleled success.

Beau Wine Tours

Luxury and ambiance surround guests as they ride comfortably in their choice of several different vehicles. Beau Wine Tours offers transportation by limousine, bus or luxury sedan to escort visitors out of San Francisco and into Napa Valley. A short stop at the Golden Gate Bridge will be first on the list of activities. From there, the wine tour will head to one of four different regions in Napa Valley with a local guide providing personalized commentary throughout the entire trip. The entire excursion takes between eight and ten hours. Anyone wishing to extend the trip can request an additional detour to Sausalito or Muir Woods.

Napa Valley Wine Country Tours

This budget-friendly wine country tour includes pick-up service from one of two locations within the city proper. After a mimosa breakfast and a quick stop at the Golden Gate Bridge, the tour takes off for Napa Valley or Sonoma Valley. The excursion includes visiting four or five wineries as well as a buffet picnic served in a vineyard. Informative chauffeurs provide fascinating details throughout the tours.

Green Dream Tours

Tours of both Napa Valley and Sonoma Valley depart daily from San Francisco via Green Dream Tours. With a focus on luxury that doesn’t compromise the environment, this distinctive touring company is proud of the features it offers guests. Boutique wineries are on the list of vineyards visited on Green Dream Tours excursions, and guests are never charged additional tasting fees. The tours also include a stop for lunch, and knowledgeable guides provide complete commentary to educate guests.

Max Napa Tours

Anyone who likes to explore the unconventional will likely appreciate the winery tours offered by Max Napa Tours. This touring company has worked to create excursions that include the oft-overlooked smaller wineries. Guests with special requests to visit specific wineries will be accommodated whenever possible. Vehicles are luxurious SUVs, and the guides are certified sommeliers.

Exploring wine country deserves to be a priority when visiting Golden City. San Francisco wine tours will be a memorable vacation excursion.
