title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
What Is Special About the Deerfield Winery in Sonoma?|http://sfinsider.sfgate.com|https://sfinsider.sfgate.com/what-is-special-about-the-deerfield-winery-in-sonoma-2/#comments||2018-09-07|Sf Insider||Sonoma Valley is a place where winemaking magic happens at many different wineries. With unique styles and blends, every winery has something special to offer wine lovers. At the Deerfield Ranch Winery, the winemakers approach their wines with a technique that’s a careful combination of tradition and innovation. Visiting the Deerfield Ranch Winery is an adventure to remember.

Introducing the Deerfield Ranch Winery

At the Deerfield Ranch Winery, winemaking happens in small lots to ensure that only the top wines have the Deerfield label. This winery’s philosophy begins with the belief that the finest wines originate from well-tended vineyards. The Deerfield Ranch Winery team also uses hand picking and sorting to ensure that only the highest-quality grapes make it into their wines.

What Sets the Deerfield Ranch Winery Apart

The Deerfield Ranch Winery is proud of its certified organic designation. This winery has a reputation for its proprietary blended wines that succeed in being both traditional and modern. The winery is also proud of its gravity-flow facility that’s large enough to house 45,000 cases. A winery cave and tasting room are also present in the facility, with 23,000 square feet for storage and guest seating.

The Vineyards and the Wines

Sourcing grapes from over 26 different Sonoma County vineyards, Deerfield Ranch Winery employs careful blending techniques to make its wines. The blends are crafted from the tastiest of the vineyards’ grapes, and they’re known for their complex flavors, rich textures and vibrant colors.

Visiting the Deerfield Ranch Winery

The Deerfield Ranch Winery’s tasting room is open most days in late mornings and early afternoons. The tasting room occupies a prominent spot in the middle of the winery’s cave, so it’s the center of all activity that happens on the estate. Guests are welcome to explore the crush pad, the fermenting tanks and the cave as they enjoy the facility. Sitting in the Grand Room of the tasting area with glass of wine in hand, it’s easy to relax and stay awhile at this winery. Groups with fewer than eight people can just drop in for a tasting. The winery also offers tastings at the Deerfield Ranch, and these are scheduled by appointment. Private events, including weddings, are another thing the Deerfield Ranch Winery does well, with a capacity of up to 100 guests.

Located in the heart of California’s Sonoma Valley, the Deerfield Ranch Winery welcomes wine lovers to come out to the estate. There, they can experience the different approach that’s alive and well on this land.
