title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
What Should Visitors Know About the Gay Pride Festival in San Francisco?|http://sfinsider.sfgate.com|https://sfinsider.sfgate.com/what-should-visitors-know-about-the-gay-pride-festival-in-san-francisco-2/#comments||2018-09-07|Sf Insider||The Gay Pride Festival in San Francisco is an annual festival that has been taking place in the city since 1970 and has grown in size every year since. According to the event’s official website, “The Mission of the San Francisco Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender Pride Celebration Committee is to educate the world, commemorate our heritage, celebrate our culture, and liberate our people.” That mission rings true as hundreds of thousands of spectators from around the world participate in the two-day festival annually to enjoy a massive parade, over 20 stages and venues serving up entertainment and over 200 vendors.

Saturday

The festival takes place on the last weekend of June every year starting at the heart of San Francisco at Civic Center Plaza. On the Saturday of the event the plaza hosts musical acts, drags shows and other entertainment on several stages. Visitors can also explore the vendors that line the plaza to see products and learn about health-related information. There are activities throughout the plaza for people of all ages to participate in.

Sunday Parade

The festival’s main event, The SF Pride Parade takes place on the Sunday morning of the event. The parade starts at Beale Street along Market Street and ends at Market and 8th Streets. In 2017 over 200 different contingents including company-sponsored floats, marching bands, non-profits and other groups participated in the parade, which featured a total of over 30,000 people marching. Over 100,000 spectators line the streets of the Union Square area of the city to watch the parade annually.

Sunday Festival

After the parade the party returns to Civic Center Plaza where the main stage comes to life and features some of the entertainment industry’s biggest names. Entertainers have included stars such as Lady Gaga, Gloria Gaynor, Sara Bareilles and Sia in the past. The vendor count also boosts to about 300 from 200 on Saturday, with many handing out free samples and a variety of information to visitors.

Around the City

The entire week leading up to the final weekend of June is all about SF Pride in San Francisco. Hotels, restaurants, bars and other venues host parties every night of the week and also offer food and drink specials to those in town for the celebration. Neighborhoods including the Castro District, the Mission District, Haight-Ashbury, Union Square, Civic Center and Twin Peaks all become hotspots for SF Pride-related activities, which makes sense because of the huge influx of people that the city takes in for the event.

Whether festival goers are part of the LGBTQ community or are allies, this event promises plenty of colorful fun for everyone. Guests should consider each day’s events and drop by for whatever interests them most.
