title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
What happened to the Ferris wheel? Rebooted Treasure Island Music Festival, now in Oakland, scales down|http://www.sfgate.com/entertainment|https://datebook.sfchronicle.com/festivals/treasure-island-music-festival-now-in-oakland-returns-rejuvenated-after-year-off||2018-10-14|Aidin Vaziri,Chronicle Staff,Mariecar Mendoza,Andrew Gilbert||What a difference a year off makes. After a hiatus in 2017, the Treasure Island Music Festival returned to the bay — this time at Oakland’s Middle Harbor Shoreline Park — with a rejuvenated spirit.

Under sunny skies, the boutique two-day music festival got off to a smooth start on Saturday, Oct. 13, with eclectic sets by rappers Pusha T and Aminé, electronic pop act Santigold and the second live U.S. appearance by the DJ duo Silk City, a collaboration between celebrity producers Diplo and Mark Ronson.

The only real hitch on the first day came with the closing set by New York rapper A$AP Rocky, who showed up more than 30 minutes late on the Town stage. But he made up for it with an elaborate light show and fireworks display.

Overall, it was a sharp contrast to the Treasure Island Music Festival’s final year at its namesake venue in 2016, when rainstorms lashed the crowds — a woman was injured when a machine toppled over because of the strong winds — and several sets were abruptly canceled.

The boutique festival, which is expected to draw an audience of 24,000 over the weekend, was set to continue on Sunday, Oct. 14, with singer-songwriter Courtney Barnett, indie rockers Lord Huron and dance pop band Jungle. Australian psychedelic group Tame Impala were to close out the festival’s 11th year. With two adjacent stages, there are no overlapping sets.

While the new venue offered fans the same bay-side experience with a picturesque view of San Francisco’s skyline, there were several notable changes: there was no silent disco party — one of the festival’s mainstay activities on the island — and, most significantly, it was not able to accommodate Treasure Island’s signature Ferris Wheel because of safety issues concerning the quality of the soil on the site.

But getting fans to and from Middle Harbor Shoreline Park, via shuttles running from BART, proved unexpectedly smooth.

“We’re just in heaven,” said Alyssa Geisenfield of San Francisco, whose first time at the festival was mainly to catch Serpentwithfeet, the experimental crooner who performed on the City stage as Sunday afternoon’s festival opener. “Serpentwithfeet, thank you for getting me here! I’m in love with this festival.”

Mariecar Mendoza, The Chronicle’s senior digital arts editor, contributed to this report.

Related articles
