title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
What kind of job do you want?|http://www.sfgate.com/business|https://blog.sfgate.com/gettowork/2018/09/14/what-kind-of-job-do-you-want/||2018-09-14|Kim Thompson||This sounds like a simple question that most could answer, yet you might be surprised at how many people struggle with describing what they want to do. Recruiters often have a difficult time getting a clear answer from job seekers who call them hoping to discover job opportunities that sound good.

The key to a successful job search starts with answering this question — what kind of job do you want? Most of the problems people have in launching a career move is a lack of planning before they start reaching out to others.

It’s very difficult to present yourself in a dynamic way to employers and your networking circle when you have a vague idea of what you want to pursue. Developing a good sense of self-awareness will not only help you land a great job, it will also increase your ability to be promoted in the future.

Out of all the traits most likely to help you succeed in your career, self-awareness ranks high on the list among leaders. Self-insight helps you become a better job candidate and employee by keeping you memorable rather than being undistinguishable with those who have a hard time explaining what they want in their career.

Self-awareness is one of the foundation blocks to developing emotional intelligence, when you are out of touch with your interests and emotions it’s difficult to convey understanding that blocks your opportunities to communicate with those around you.

You can increase your self-awareness anytime by implementing a shift in your thinking. I like the way Stephen Covey describes the spirit of self-awareness as a “transfer of responsibility.” In other words, once you start listening to what you say and how you react to situations, your awareness changes.

Here are some common situations where developing self-awareness creates a positive outcome and will boost your career:

Be aware of your self-talk when deciding who you are, your interests and what you want to do.

You may be unsettled in your current job or feel an emptiness at work knowing that you are in the wrong job.

Capture your thoughts by identifying what’s missing, write them down. Get in touch with what you want to pursue. It’s easy to get stuck in a rut and reminisce about what’s wrong with your job search or focus on the negative aspects.

The way to get the kind of job you want is to organize your thoughts by breaking them down into action steps.

Know what you want so that you can easily talk about it with those who are part of the hiring process. You own your career rather than your employer and creating self-awareness helps you grow instead of waiting on others deciding your career path.

It’s not uncommon to be interested in more than one career path and if that’s your situation you can still be clear about what jobs you want to pursue if you have a plan in mind.

Informational interviewing is a great way to build awareness in a specific field and help you determine if this is the kind of job you want to pursue. Many times, job candidates are vague about their interests because they lack knowledge. Talking with others who are currently working in a career field that interests you helps define the job you want to pursue.

The goal of a successful job search starts with deciding what you want to do. An informed and focused candidate is often the one who lands the best opportunity and leaves a great impression.
