title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
What Are the Best Restaurants in the Bay Area?|http://sfinsider.sfgate.com|https://sfinsider.sfgate.com/what-are-the-best-restaurants-in-the-bay-area-2/#comments||2018-10-18|Sf Insider||While San Francisco is a renowned food city, the Bay Area is full of restaurants that speak to the delicious combination of local ingredients from farm to sea. Many Bay Area restaurants in Berkeley and Oakland offer exceptional food that’s worth a visit for the tourist and locals alike. From sea-inspired entrees to farm-to-table classics and international cuisine with a decidedly California spin, there are some essential Bay Area restaurants to choose from when planning a night in the Bay Area. Be aware that menus may change.

Miss Ollie’s

Miss Ollie’s is a unique restaurant that serves Caribbean food with notable California flavors. Miss Ollie’s is casual dining at its finest, and diners can grab a spot at the communal picnic-style tables as they chow down on choices like skillet-fried chicken and jerk shrimp.

Hopscotch Restaurant & Bar

Hopscotch Restaurant and Bar is a classic example of what happens when California flavors influence cuisines from other locales. At Hopscotch, Chef Kyle Itani blends Pacific influences from Japan and California to create dishes like fried green tomatoes with smoked daikon sauce. Southern influences even join the party with a delectable fried chicken meal that’s a favorite among diners.

Shakewell

Those looking for a Mediterranean restaurant that combines a variety of flavors should stop by Shakewell for lunch or dinner. Bay Area diners can nosh on Spanish- and Moroccan-inspired tapas dishes, like spiced prawns and other seafood offerings. Diner can choose bar-style tables that look out onto the bustling street or into the kitchen’s wood-fired oven.

Brown Sugar Kitchen

Diners who want a dinner that’s overflowing with charm and more than a little Southern influence should stop in at the Brown Sugar Kitchen. This restaurant has a menu loaded with soul food favorites, including shrimp and grits and chicken and waffles. It’s quite crowded on the weekends, but those looking for the quintessential Bay Area brunch stop are rewarded for weathering the wait.

Geta Sushi

Of course, there’s certainly more than one way to slice a fish, and diners in the Bay Area have not only their pick of classic seafood restaurants but of sushi establishments as well. Geta Sushi is a popular Bay Area sushi restaurant that’s located in Piedmont. It’s small, but the lines move quickly, bringing diners roll after roll of fresh sushi picks at the bar or a table in the dining room. The rolls at Geta are very reasonably priced, which makes this a popular option for locals and tourists alike.

This list of course is only lists a fraction of the best restaurants in the Bay Area. Sampling the dishes on these restaurants will be a good start, but you can also seek out other recommendations and create your own list of the best restaurants in the Bay Area.
