title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Where Are the Best Places to Head for a Forest Knolls Dinner?|http://sfinsider.sfgate.com|https://sfinsider.sfgate.com/where-are-the-best-places-to-head-for-a-forest-knolls-dinner/#comments||2018-03-02|Sf Insider||The Forest Knolls neighborhood sits in the western part of San Francisco, close to Mount Sutro and Mount Davidson where locals and visitors enjoy hiking and climbing. After a day of all that outdoor activity calls for a good meal and a Forest Knolls dinner at a local restaurant won’t disappoint. Here is a look at some of the top dining options for locals and visitors alike.

Two Bird Cafe

Two Bird Cafe is part of the Valley Inn in beautiful Marin County. Guests can enjoy dinner at the cozy restaurant and stay overnight at the inn for a delightful weekender. Dinner at Two Bird Cafe can begin with unique salads and starters and the entrees are composed perfectly taking advantage of local and seasonal options. When available on the menu, charbroiled loin lamb chops with rosemary and mint demi-glace, seared jumbo scallops with champagne vanilla butter sauce and New York steak au poivre with brandy peppercorn cream sauce are always terrific choices.

Pomelo

The open kitchen format of Pomelo restaurant surprises and pleases guests with its innovative offerings. Their destination entrees include the Otsu cold buckwheat noodle salad, the Manila stir-fried rice noodles with prawns, chicken and Chinese sausage and the Kandy, which is a Sri Lankan chicken curry with bananas, curry leaves and red chiles over steamed rice and young coconut. Side dishes at Pomelo include interesting salads, such as the baby greens with brie, strawberries, marcona almond and white balsamic vinaigrette, as well as soft corn tacos with grilled fish, avocado, shredded cabbage, mango salsa and chipotle aioli.

Zazie

When diners bring their dogs to dinner at Zazie on Monday nights, they receive a discount on any bottle of wine plus treats for the canine visitors. This delightful French bistro serves entrees that will make guests think they’re sitting in a Parisian cafe. No one who stops by can resist the grilled mascarpone polenta cakes, French porcini and truffle ravioli, coq au vin de Zazie and the classic beef Bourguignon. Locals know to save room for the baked hot chocolate, chocolate pots du crème, fresh fruit crumble and toasted pain de mie bread pudding.

Enjoy

Enjoy is a casual neighborhood food spot that serves vegetarian, mock meat and faux fish Chinese dishes for those who maintain a vegetarian or vegan lifestyle. Frequently seen on the menu or as house specials are fried chicken with lemon sauce, steak with black pepper sauce, sweet and sour chicken and vegetable triple-spice chicken with napa cabbage and basil in a clay pot.
