title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Where Can Diners Find a Great Crocker-Amazon Lunch?|http://sfinsider.sfgate.com|https://sfinsider.sfgate.com/where-can-diners-find-a-great-crocker-amazon-lunch/||2018-03-02|Sf Insider||The quiet neighborhood of Crocker-Amazon sits on the edge of San Francisco and Daly City. After the morning fog lifts is the perfect time to head out for a great Crocker-Amazon lunch at one of the area’s top restaurant locations.

A Great Pub Lunch at The Dark Horse Inn

The Dark Horse Inn smokes its own meats, makes its own salad dressings and desserts and specializes in local and craft beers and wine. That’s enough to draw a lunch crowd every day and this neighborhood food spot does just that. Starters and small bites include deviled eggs with bacon, mac & cheese and pork sliders. Big bites such as the kimchi reuben, veggie burger, tilapia tacos and buffalo chicken sandwich are local favorites. In addition to craft brews, the restaurant also offers specialty soft beverages like Bundaberg Guava Soda, Sprecher Root Beer and Fentiman’s Rose Lemonade.

It’s All Authentic Southern at Keith’s Chicken & Waffles

When cravings for down-home Southern cooking hit, lunch at Keith’s Chicken & Waffles is the place to go. There’s fried chicken in several combo options but the waffles deserve the attention here. There’s a gourmet Belgian waffle, sweet potato waffle, red velvet waffle and a waffle trio for those who can’t decide. And it wouldn’t be a Southern meal without sides like mac & cheese, collard greens, cornbread and of sweet potato pie.

Cheesesteaks Are Just the Beginning at Phillies

At a place called Phillies, cheesesteaks are going to rule. Options include pepper steak, pizza steak, mushroom steak, buffalo steak and teriyaki steak. Hoagies are popular favorites, too, as are 100 percent Angus burgers. Diners have to try the sides including cheese tots, corn nuggets, breaded mushrooms and chili cheese fries.

Authentic Chinese and Vietnamese Food at Mission Asia Noodle

Fresh ingredients and skilled chefs combine to create one of the best Crocker-Amazon lunches around. Menu items at Mission Asia Noodle can include starters such as potstickers, spring rolls and mu shu pork. Seafood and chicken favorites, sweet and sour shrimp, kung pao chicken, string bean chicken and broccoli chicken stir fry are favorites with regulars. Pork and beef options can include pork with bitter melon in black bean sauce, ma pao tofu with minced pork, Mongolian beef and Chinese broccoli beef. Fried rice meals are also available in several varieties such as Indonesia fried rice with shrimp, chicken and curry, yan chow fried rice with shrimp and pork and saltfish with chicken fried rice.
