title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Why natural surfaces rule in rustic-chic design|http://www.sfgate.com|https://blog.sfgate.com/storystudio/2018/08/20/why-natural-surfaces-rule-in-rustic-chic-design/||2018-08-20|||By StoryStudio

Some home design trends disappear faster than you can say “fast furniture.” Others, like rustic chic, stick around for a while.

There’s a lot of reasons to love the rustic-chic look:

It’s versatile. Rustic chic works in urban lofts, in country homes and in small apartments.

It’s cool but not cold. The mix of modern and rustic, sleek and tactile, angular and soft, makes a modern home feel comfortable.

It’s sustainable. The use of reclaimed wood and natural stone makes it environmentally friendly.

It’s affordable. You can combine modern furniture with repurposed gems to make the look fit your budget.

Rustic chic is especially popular with millennial homeowners who like to mix and match their favorite styles to create a home that’s all theirs.

Natural stone, which comes straight from the earth, is nothing if not rustic. It also blends nicely with other natural materials such as wood and copper.

Whether you’re a rising star decorating your first home à la rustic chic or an empty nester remodeling the family abode, here’s how to do it with natural stone.

Functional flooring.

Rustic chic throws together modern and organic furniture and surfaces. Think hardwood floors, vaulted ceilings with exposed beams, and open floor plans. A modern loft may have exposed ductwork, concrete flooring and exposed brick walls.

To add warmth to a modern kitchen, consider wood-look porcelain tiles. “You get the easy maintenance and durability of porcelain tile with the look of reclaimed wood,” says Dilmohan Chadha, founder and president of Integrated Resources Group (IRG), a leading natural stone supplier with showrooms in Brisbane and Dublin. IRG carries EPIC porcelain slabs* that mimic varying patterns.

Limestone* also works well in rustic chic spaces. “Its subtle matte or honed texture suits the rustic look,” says Chadha.

Add color to your countertop.

A rustic-chic kitchen combines clean lines and modern appliances with hints of warmth and color. Instead of sleek, white quartz countertops, aim for a surface with texture and subtle color.

For a hint of the classic, Chadha suggests Carrara* or Arabescato* marble, which balances nicely with wood shelving. For originality, go for lilac polished marble, which has gorgeous purple veins, or Calacatta Paonazzo*, which has bold lines and hints of gold.

Go bold with the backsplash (or not).

If your rustic kitchen ends up all white and stainless steel, consider an eye-catching backsplash to soften the look. Mosaic tiles, with their limitless patterns and colors, allow your individuality to shine through.

If you choose a bolder kitchen surface, such as Calacatta Paonazzo*, a simple white subway tile backsplash will do. Homeowners have paired white marble countertops with a colored subway tile backsplash, an aluminum tile backsplash with natural stone surfaces, or hand-baked clay tiles with a sleek engineered surface. Rustic chic is all about mix and match, so mix it up!

Beautify the bath

Farmhouse sinks, mismatched faucet handles and natural wood siding all rank high with rustic-chic fans. Subway tiles work well in the bath, especially when combined with a vintage vanity.

Timeless marble also has a place in a rustic-chic en suite. Consider a marble bathtub surround for a hint of elegance. You could also design a drool-worthy modern bath and add natural elements such as baskets and plants to soften it up. Some homeowners even knock out entire walls to have a view of the outdoors from their showers—great, provided you don’t have close neighbors!

IRG, one of the Bay Area’s largest stone suppliers, has an extensive collection of marble, limestone and porcelain slabs, as well as other natural surfaces and semiprecious stones. Stop by one of its showrooms today. They’ll help you create a rustic-chic design that’s all you.

Visit the IRG website or call 415-657-0280 (Brisbane) or 925-829-1133 (Dublin) to schedule an appointment and for more information.





























Image 1 of / 8 Caption Close Image 2 of 8 Arabescato Honed & Polished Marble Arabescato Honed & Polished Marble Image 3 of 8 Calacatta Paonazzo Extra Polished Marble Calacatta Paonazzo Extra Polished Marble Image 4 of 8 Epic Statuario Light Natural Porcelain Epic Statuario Light Natural Porcelain Image 5 of 8 Bianco Carrara Extra Select Honed Marble Bianco Carrara Extra Select Honed Marble Image 6 of 8 Ata Blue Honed Limestone Ata Blue Honed Limestone Image 7 of 8 Belgium Truffle Satin Limestone Belgium Truffle Satin Limestone Image 8 of 8 Cenia Azul Limestone Cenia Azul Limestone Why natural surfaces rule in rustic-chic design 1 / 8 Back to Gallery

*slideshow features said products.
