title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
With MLS-worst record, SJ Earthquakes fire head coach Mikael Stahre|http://www.sfgate.com/quakes|https://blog.sfgate.com/soccer/2018/09/17/with-mls-worst-record-sj-earthquakes-fire-head-coach-mikael-stahre/||2018-09-17|Douglas Zimmerman||After leading the Earthquakes to the worst record in MLS, San Jose announced the firing of first-year head coach Mikael Stahre on Monday. They appointed assistant coach Steve Ralston as the interim head coach for the remainder of the year.

“We felt we needed a change and decided that the six remaining games represent an opportunity for all of us to begin heading in a new direction and to evaluate our options actively with a single goal in mind: to strengthen our first team for the upcoming season and beyond,” said Earthquakes general manager Jesse Fioranelli, who was instrumental in plucking the Swedish soccer manager from overseas and bringing him into the MLS.

By all accounts, Stahre’s term in charge of San Jose has been a disappointment. After the team won their first game of the season, they embarked on a 20-game stretch when they won only one other match. During their losing streak, Stahre’s most controversial move was to bench the club’s star striker Chris Wondolowski, as he chased the MLS all-time goal scoring record.

It appears that the Quakes 5-1 drubbing at Avaya Stadium against Sporting Kansas City last Saturday was the last straw for Stahre. The former head coach conceded after the game it was the team’s worst home performance all season.

San Jose has been firmly rooted in the basement of the league standings all year. They have won 4 games all season and amassed 20 points through 28 league matches.

Stahre did have some success coaching overseas before coming to America. He led the Swedish club AIK to their league title in 2009 and has also managed in China and Greece.

Ralston, who had a long and storied professional career, retired from MLS in 2010 with the record for most assists, starts, and games played in league history. He joined the staff of the Quakes in 2015 as an assistant coach.

With Stahre’s firing, the club announced that first-year assistant coach Alex de Crook was also released. To help Ralston, the Earthquakes appointed Alex Covelo, the Quakes Director of Methodology, as an assistant coach.
