title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
Announcing The Atlantic Festival|http://theatlantic.com/press|http://theatlantic.com/press-releases/archive/2018/07/announcing-the-atlantic-festivalpreviously-washington-ideasrenamed-and-expanded-in-its-10th-year/566249/||2018-07-27|||“In the nine years since we launched our signature Washington event, The Atlantic has grown and changed a lot. We’re now a multi-platform publisher, delivering sophisticated journalism in the magazine, on the web, on stage, in video, in audio—and most any other way our audience wants to consume high-quality reporting and storytelling,” said Bob Cohn, president of The Atlantic. “Our plans for this year’s Atlantic Festival signal the scope of our reinvention and of our limitless ambitions.”

“This will be a magnificent experience for speakers and festival goers alike. Our new name captures the expanded ambition of this fall ritual. The Atlantic Festival is really the 3D expression of The Atlantic’s journalism—a big tent, where we grapple with the most consequential issues of our time,” said AtlanticLIVE’s President Margaret Low. “And festival goers will now get to experience the heart of this city in a new way. What happens off the stage, as we spill out into the neighborhood, will be as exciting as what happens on the stage.”

Early-bird tickets are available now. General admission tickets can be purchased for $200; Atlantic Festival Patron passes are available for $450. Detailed information on ticketing is available HERE. Members of the media should inquire directly with the contacts below for registration information.

Created in 2009 by The Atlantic in partnership with the Aspen Institute, the event has grown from a one-and-a-half day, single-stage experience, to a weeklong slate of more than thirty distinct events, featuring over 100 speakers and an audience of 2500. The Atlantic Festival will increase its editorial scope in 2018, convening the national voices and topics—from the urgent to the entertaining—that are defining all aspects of American society. Past speakers have included heads of state and civic leaders, corporate icons, authors, entrepreneurs, artists, and cultural luminaries.

Detailed announcements about speakers and event information will be made in the coming weeks.

Booz Allen Hamilton is an Innovation Level Underwriter of The Atlantic Festival. Inova, the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Caterpillar Foundation, and Pfizer are Presenting Level Underwriters. Aflac and Allstate are Supporting Underwriters; and ExxonMobil, IBM, and US Bank are Contributing Underwriters.

###
