title source_url url tags publish_date authors summary text
HBO and The Atlantic Challenge Viewers to Examine Their Own Beliefs in New Short Film Series|http://theatlantic.com/press|http://theatlantic.com/press-releases/archive/2018/05/hbo-and-the-atlantic-question-your-answers/560036/||2018-05-09|||Question Your Answers is being produced in partnership between the two media brands and Wieden+Kennedy New York, and is a continuation of a platform The Atlantic introduced in early 2017. The centerpiece of that project was an acclaimed two-and-a-half minute film starring Michael K. Williams, who plays four characters as he weighs the complicated question of whether he is being typecast.

In today’s iteration, HBO and The Atlantic are expanding the Question Your Answers concept and bringing it to a larger audience. Additional films starring HBO talent are in development and will live on The Atlantic’s and HBO’s digital and OTT properties, and be broadcast on HBO.

“Should I Be Scared?” opens with an anxious Jeffrey Wright seated in a window seat of a nearly empty plane, encountering a storm. At first, his fear stems only from the turbulence. But as two other versions of himself—the measured optimist, and the hair-on-fire headline reader (with a couple of other cameos throughout)—join the debate, his exploration evolves into a metaphor for today’s environment of global instability.

“Should I Be Scared?” will air on HBO on Sunday, May 13 just before the new episode of Westworld. The film was directed by David Shane of O Positive Films, who also directed the original “Typecast” film. Find the series, engage with GIFs, and learn more at: questionyouranswers.com.

###

About HBO

HBO® is one of the most respected and innovative entertainment brands in the world, serving iconic, award-winning programming to 142 million subscribers globally. A subsidiary of Time Warner, Inc., HBO is the world’s most successful pay TV service with an extensive array of programming that includes some of the most notable titles to be on television including Game of Thrones®, Big Little Lies®, Westworld®, The Sopranos®, Sex and the City®, Band of Brothers®, and The Wire®. In the United States, HBO® and sister network Cinemax® are available across multiple platforms including HBO On Demand®, Cinemax On Demand®, HBO GO® and MAX GO®, as well as HBO NOW®. Internationally, HBO branded services, including television networks and the standalone streaming product HBO GO®, are available in more than 70 countries across Asia, Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean. HBO and Cinemax programming is also sold into more than 150 countries worldwide.

About The Atlantic

Founded in 1857 and today one of the fastest-growing media platforms in the industry, The Atlantic has throughout its history championed the power of big ideas and continues to shape global debate across print, digital, events, and video platforms. With its award-winning digital presence TheAtlantic.com and CityLab.com, on cities around the world, The Atlantic is a multimedia forum on the most critical issues of our times—from politics, business, urban affairs, and the economy, to technology, arts, and culture. Bob Cohn is president of The Atlantic and Jeffrey Goldberg is editor in chief.
